Our American Holidays

INDEPENDENCE DAY




                          Our American Holidays

                               INDEPENDENCE
                                   DAY

                ITS CELEBRATION, SPIRIT, AND SIGNIFICANCE
                      AS RELATED IN PROSE AND VERSE

                                EDITED BY
                         ROBERT HAVEN SCHAUFFLER

                              [Illustration]

                                 NEW YORK
                         MOFFAT, YARD AND COMPANY
                                   1912

                           COPYRIGHT, 1912, BY
                         MOFFAT, YARD AND COMPANY
                                 NEW YORK

                       _Published, February, 1912_




CONTENTS


                                                                      PAGE

  PREFACE                                                                7

  NOTE                                                                   9

  INTRODUCTION                                                          11

                                    I

                               CELEBRATION

  THE GREAT AMERICAN HOLIDAY                              _Anonymous_   21

  THE NATION’S BIRTHDAY                             _Mary E. Vandyne_   22

  HOW THE FOURTH OF JULY SHOULD BE CELEBRATED       _Julia Ward Howe_   24

                                   II

                         SPIRIT AND SIGNIFICANCE

  ENGLAND AND AMERICA                                   _James Bryce_   39

  THE BIRTHDAY OF THE NATION                         _Daniel Webster_   40

  THE FOURTH OF JULY                          _Charles Leonard Moore_   42

  LIFT UP YOUR HEARTS                                     _Anonymous_   42

  ENGLAND AND THE FOURTH OF JULY                        _W. T. Stead_   46

  SOME EARLY INDEPENDENCE DAY ADDRESSES                                 47

  THE FOURTH OF JULY                                _Charles Sprague_   53

  OUR NATIONAL ANNIVERSARY                               _A. H. Rice_   54

  AMERICA’S NATAL DAY                        _James Gillespie Blaine_   55

  CRISES OF NATIONS                                        _Dr. Foss_   56

  THE FOURTH OF JULY IN WESTMINSTER ABBEY           _Phillips Brooks_   56

                                   III

                     BEFORE THE DAWN OF INDEPENDENCE

  AMERICA RESENTS BRITISH DICTATION             _Henry B. Carrington_   61

  SPEECH OF JAMES OTIS                                                  62

  INDEPENDENCE A SOLEMN DUTY                                            64

  AN APPEAL FOR AMERICA                                _William Pitt_   66

  CONCILIATION OR WAR                                                   69

  “WAR IS ACTUALLY BEGUN”                             _Patrick Henry_   72

  EMANCIPATION FROM BRITISH DEPENDENCE               _Philip Freneau_   76

                                   IV

                             THE DECLARATION

  THE ORIGIN OF THE DECLARATION                _Sydney George Fisher_   81

  THE DECLARATION OF INDEPENDENCE                      _John D. Long_  101

  THE SIGNING OF THE DECLARATION                     _George Lippard_  104

  SUPPOSED SPEECH OF JOHN ADAMS                      _Daniel Webster_  107

  THE LIBERTY BELL                                    _J. T. Headley_  111

  INDEPENDENCE BELL, PHILADELPHIA                         _Anonymous_  112

  THE DECLARATION OF INDEPENDENCE                                      115

  INDEPENDENCE EXPLAINED                               _Samuel Adams_  121

  THE DIGNITY OF OUR NATION’S FOUNDERS            _William T. Evarts_  123

  THE CHARACTER OF THE DECLARATION OF INDEPENDENCE  _George Bancroft_  125

  THE DECLARATION OF INDEPENDENCE                  _Henry T. Randall_  126

  THE DECLARATION OF INDEPENDENCE                 _John Quincy Adams_  127

  THE DECLARATION OF INDEPENDENCE                       _Tudor Jenks_  128

  THE DECLARATION OF INDEPENDENCE IN THE LIGHT
    OF MODERN CRITICISM                            _Moses Coit Tyler_  132

                                    V

                      THE STRUGGLE FOR INDEPENDENCE

  THE PRINCIPLES OF THE REVOLUTION                                     157

  THE SONG OF THE CANNON                            _Sam Walter Foss_  158

  PAUL REVERE’S RIDE                     _Henry Wadsworth Longfellow_  160

  HYMN                                          _Ralph Waldo Emerson_  164

  A SONG FOR LEXINGTON                           _Robert Kelly Weeks_  165

  THE REVOLUTIONARY ALARM                           _George Bancroft_  166

  THE VOLUNTEER                           _Elbridge Jefferson Cutler_  168

  TICONDEROGA                                          _V. B. Wilson_  169

  WARREN’S ADDRESS                                    _John Pierpont_  171

  “THE LONELY BUGLE GRIEVES”                       _Grenville Mellen_  172

  THE BATTLE OF BUNKER HILL                                            173

  THE MARYLAND BATTALION                     _John Williamson Palmer_  175

  THE BATTLE OF TRENTON                                   _Anonymous_  177

  COLUMBIA                                           _Timothy Dwight_  178

  THE FIGHTING PARSON                              _Henry Ames Blood_  180

  THE SARATOGA LESSON                         _George William Curtis_  184

  THE SURRENDER OF BURGOYNE                  _James Watts De Peyster_  187

  THE SARATOGA MONUMENT BEGUN                       _Horatio Seymour_  187

  MOLLY MAGUIRE AT MONMOUTH                         _William Collins_  190

  THE SOUTH IN THE REVOLUTION                    _Robert Young Hayne_  193

  THE SONG OF MARION’S MEN                    _William Cullen Bryant_  195

  OUR COUNTRY SAVED                            _James Russell Lowell_  197

  NEW ENGLAND AND VIRGINIA                  _Robert Charles Winthrop_  199

                                   VI

                          SWEET LAND OF LIBERTY

  AMERICA                                               _S. F. Smith_  203

  THE REPUBLIC                           _Henry Wadsworth Longfellow_  205

  THE ANTIQUITY OF FREEDOM                    _William Cullen Bryant_  206

  AMERICA                                     _William Cullen Bryant_  208

  ODE                                           _Ralph Waldo Emerson_  210

  AMERICA FIRST                                           _Anonymous_  212

  LIBERTY FOR ALL                            _William Lloyd Garrison_  213

  HYMN                                                    _Anonymous_  214

  THE DAWNING FUTURE                        _William Preston Johnson_  216

  LIBERTY                                                              216

  FREEDOM                                                              217

  A RHAPSODY                                 _Cassius Marcellus Clay_  219

  COLUMBIA                               _Frederick Lawrence Knowles_  221

  A RENAISSANCE OF PATRIOTISM                      _George J. Manson_  222

  CENTENNIAL POEMS                          _John Greenleaf Whittier_  230

  WELCOME TO THE NATION                       _Oliver Wendell Holmes_  232

  LIBERTY’S LATEST DAUGHTER                           _Bayard Taylor_  233

  “SCUM OF THE EARTH”                       _Robert Haven Schauffler_  234

  LIBERTY AND UNION ONE AND INSEPARABLE              _Daniel Webster_  238

  ADDRESS TO LIBERTY                                 _William Cowper_  240

  THE TORCH OF LIBERTY                                 _Thomas Moore_  241

  HOROLOGE OF LIBERTY                                     _Anonymous_  242

  THE AMERICAN REPUBLIC                             _George Bancroft_  243

  A NEW NATIONAL HYMN                       _Francis Marion Crawford_  244

                                   VII

                                 FICTION

  JIM’S AUNT                                _Frances Bent Dillingham_  249

                                  VIII

                             THE NEW FOURTH

  OUR BARBAROUS FOURTH                           _Mrs. Isaac L. Rice_  265

  A SAFE AND SANE FOURTH OF JULY              _Henry Litchfield West_  285

  THE NEW INDEPENDENCE DAY
                      _Henry B. F. MacFarland and Richard B. Watrous_  296

  NEW FOURTHS FOR OLD                            _Mrs. Isaac L. Rice_  299

  AMERICANIZING THE FOURTH                  _Robert Haven Schauffler_  307




PREFACE


This book is an anthology of American Independence: of the document that
announced its birth; of the struggle that established it in life; and of
the patriotism that was to it both sire and son. It aims to present a
clear review of the origin, spirit and significance of Independence Day
and of its celebration both by the now discredited methods of brutal,
meaningless noise and indiscriminate carnage, which disgraced the larger
part of the previous century, and by the recent methods of sane and safe,
reverent and meaningful celebration.

The volume contains a selection of the best prose and verse that bears
in any way on our nation’s birthday; and closes with many constructive
suggestions for the celebration of our new, more beautiful and more
patriotic Fourth.




NOTE


Thanks are due to Miss Jessie Welles, superintendent of circulation in
the Carnegie Library, Pittsburgh, for the suggestion which originated
“Our American Holidays.” And gratitude is also expressed to the
Misses Tobey, to Miss Helen Miles and all the other librarians of the
Bloomingdale Branch Library in New York who have generously given the
editor such invaluable aid in the preparation of these volumes.

The Editor also wishes to acknowledge his indebtedness to Houghton,
Mifflin & Company; The Century Co.; J. B. Lippincott & Co.; Bobbs-Merrill
Co., and others who have very kindly granted permission to reprint
selections from works bearing their copyright.

                                                  ROBERT HAVEN SCHAUFFLER.




INTRODUCTION


When, on the fourth day of each July, Americans keep the birthday of the
nation we celebrate as our greatest secular holiday, the one which has
the honor of being sanctioned by statute in every state of the Union.

From times as early as any living memory can reach, this anniversary
has been observed in much the same fashion: by spread-eagle oratory, by
unlimited and quite meaningless noise, and hospitals filled with the
wounded and dying. It is curious that the festival should have gone on
in this monotonous manner decade after decade until nearly the middle of
its second century of life, and then suddenly should have encountered
a revolution far more abrupt than the early, heroic one which it
commemorates.

For our attitude toward the Fourth is undergoing swift revolution as
regards our understanding both of the causes that underlay American
independence, of the real spirit in which the Declaration was penned, and
of the reasons why July fourth rather than some other day was fixed upon.
Finally, the swiftest Fourth of July revolution of all is taking place in
the way we celebrate it.

Until quite recently all historians have, consciously or unconsciously,
been consistent in misrepresenting the War of Seventy-Six and the events
leading thereto. And we owe no small debt of gratitude to writers like
Mr. Owen Wister and Mr. Sydney George Fisher for telling us the truth.
Mr. Wister writes[1] of the Revolution that while “As a war, its real
military aspect is slowly emerging from the myth of uninterrupted
patriotism and glory, universally taught to school children, its
political hue is still thickly painted and varnished over by our writers.

“How many Americans know, for instance, that England was at first
extremely lenient to us? fought us (until 1778) with one hand in a
glove, and an olive branch in the other? had any wish rather than
to crush us; had no wish save to argue us back into the fold, and
enforce argument with an occasional victory not followed up?... For any
American historian to speak the truth on these matters is a very recent
phenomenon, their common design having been to leave out any facts which
spoil the political picture of the Revolution they chose to paint for
our edification: a ferocious, blood-shot tyrant on the one side, and
on the other a compact band of ‘Fathers,’ down-trodden and martyred,
yet with impeccable linen and bland legs. A wrong conception even of
the Declaration of Independence as Jefferson’s original invention still
prevails; Jefferson merely drafted the document, expressing ideas well
established in the contemporary air. Let us suppose that some leader of
our own time were to write: ‘Three dangers to-day threaten the United
States, any one of which could be fatal: unscrupulous capital, destroying
man’s liberty to compete; unscrupulous Labor, destroying man’s liberty to
work; and undesirable Immigration, in which four years of naturalization
are not going to counteract four hundred years of heredity. Unless the
people check all of these, American liberty will become extinct.’ If
some one were to write a new Declaration of Independence, containing such
sentences, he could not claim originality for them; he would be merely
stating ideas that are among us everywhere. This is what Jefferson did,
writing his sentences loosely, because the ideas they expressed were so
familiar as to render exact definitions needless.”

Mr. Wister deserves gratitude for giving us these unpalatable truths
in such palatable form; but he should have far more gratitude for
introducing to a wide body of readers his chief source of information,
the historian Mr. Sydney George Fisher, one of whose most valuable
chapters has fortunately been secured for reproduction in the body of
this book. Mr. Fisher writes:[2]

“I cannot feel satisfied with any description of the Revolution which
treats the desire for independence as a sudden thought, and not a long
growth and development, or which assumes that every detail of the conduct
of the British government was absurdly stupid, even from its own point of
view, and that the loyalists were few in numbers and their arguments not
worth considering....

“The historians seem to have assumed that we do not want to know about
that controversy” (over Gen. Howe’s lenient methods), “or that it will
be better for us not to know about it. They have assumed that it will
be better for Americans to think that independence was a sudden and
deplorable necessity and not a desire of long and ardent growth and
cautiously planned intention. They have assumed that we want to think of
England as having lost the colonies by failure to be conciliatory, and
that the Revolution was a one-sided, smooth affair, without any of the
difficulties or terrors of a rebellion or a great upheaval of settled
opinion.”

There can be small doubt that when this true inner history of our
independence becomes generally known it will do much to mitigate the
blind, provincial spread-eagleism that still clings to even our safest
and sanest celebrations of the Fourth and that has so ably thwarted every
motion toward fraternal intimacy between the two great branches of the
Anglo-Saxon race. The following[3] paragraph is fairly typical of the
British attitude toward the celebration of our national birthday.

“Where a country or a government has been baffled in its efforts
to attain or preserve a hated rule over another people, it must be
content to see its failure made the subject of never-ending triumph and
exultation. The joy attached to the sense of escape or emancipation tends
to perpetuate itself by periodical celebrations, in which it is not
likely that the motives of the other party, or the general justice of the
case, will be very carefully considered or allowed for. We may doubt if
it be morally expedient thus to keep alive the memory of facts which as
certainly infer mortification to one party as they do glorification to
another: but we must all admit that it is only natural, and in a measure
to be expected.”

When we come to view the facts as they are, to realize of what shocking
sportsmanship our own one-sided view of independence convicts us, we
shall have removed one of the chief obstacles to Anglo-Saxon solidarity.
But it will be necessary first to learn something about the day we
celebrate. How many, for instance, even know that July fourth was fixed
upon as a compromise date between two other rival claimants?

Walsh writes:[4]

“It may not be generally known that no less than three dates might
reasonably compete for designation as the natal day of American
Independence and for the honors of the anniversary of that event.

“On the second of July, 1776, was adopted the resolution of independence,
the sufficient legislative act; and it was this day that Mr. Adams
designated as the anniversary in the oft-quoted letter written on his
desk at the time, prophesying its future celebration, by bells, bonfires,
cannonades, etc. On the fourth of July occurred the Declaration of
Independence. On the second of August following took place the ceremony
of signature, which has furnished to the popular imagination the common
pictorial and dramatic conceptions of the event.

“The history connecting these three dates may be intelligently told in
a brief space. On the fifteenth of May, 1776, a convention in Virginia
had instructed its delegates in the General Congress ‘to propose to
that body to declare the United Colonies free and independent States,
absolved from all allegiance to or dependence on the Crown or Parliament
of Great Britain, and that they give the assent of this Colony to such
declaration, and to whatever measures may be thought proper and necessary
by the Congress for forming foreign alliances and a confederation of
the Colonies.’ The motion thus ordered was on the seventh of June made
in Congress by Richard Henry Lee, as the oldest member of the Virginia
delegation. It was to the effect that ‘these United Colonies are,
and of right ought to be, free and independent States; that they are
absolved from all allegiance to the British crown; and that all political
connection between them and the state of Great Britain is, and ought
to be, totally dissolved.’ The resolution was slightly debated for two
or three days, but from considerations of prudence or expediency the
discussion was intermitted. As texts for the action of Congress there
were the resolution referred to, and the more formal, or at least more
lengthy, document which the committee of five—Jefferson, Adams, Franklin,
Sherman, and Livingston—had been instructed on the eleventh of June to
prepare. This document was draughted by Jefferson and presented under the
title of ‘A Declaration by the Representatives of the United States of
America in General Congress assembled.’

“On the first of July there was again called up in Congress the
resolution proposed by Mr. Lee. On the second of July it passed. Two days
later (the fourth of July) was adopted, after various amendments, the
‘Declaration’ from Mr. Jefferson’s pen. The document was authenticated,
like the other papers of the Congress, by the signature of the president
and the secretary, and, in addition, was signed by the members _present_,
with the exception of Mr. Dickinson of Pennsylvania, who, as Mr.
Jefferson has testified, ‘refused to sign it.’

“But it did not then bear the names of the members of Congress as they
finally appeared on it. A number of these still opposed it, and had voted
against it; it was passed unanimously only as regarded states. Thus, a
majority of the Pennsylvania delegation had persistently opposed it,
and it was only the absence of two of their delegates on the final vote
that left a majority for this state in its favor. Some days after the
Declaration had thus passed, and had been proclaimed at the head of the
army, it was ordered by Congress that it be engrossed on parchment and
signed by every member; and it was not until the second of August that
these signatures were made, and the matter concluded by this peculiar and
august ceremony of personal pledges in the autographs of the members.
It is this copy or form of the Declaration which has, in fact, been
preserved as the original: the first signed paper does not exist, and was
probably destroyed as incomplete.

“If the natal day of American Independence is to be derived from the
ceremony of these later signatures, and the real date of what has been
preserved as the legal original of the Declaration, then it would be
the second of August. If derived from the substantial, legal _act_ of
separation from the British Crown, which was contained rather in the
resolution of Congress than in its Declaration of Independence, it would
be the second of July. But common consent has determined to date the
great anniversary from the apparently subordinate event of the passage of
the Declaration, and thus celebrates the Fourth of July as the birthday
of the nation.”

Finally, after making ourselves reasonably intelligent as to the origin,
spirit and true significance of Independence Day it behooves us as true
Americans to enter the splendid new movement which is endeavoring
to make the Fourth over from a day of shallow jingoism and unmeaning
brutality and carnage into a day of initiation into the meaning of true
citizenship and a festival of deep and genuine and beautiful patriotism.

                                                                  R. H. S.




INDEPENDENCE DAY




I

CELEBRATION


THE GREAT AMERICAN HOLIDAY

ANONYMOUS

Among all the holidays of the year, one stands out as preëminently
American; one appeals especially to that sentiment of patriotism and
national pride which glows in every loyal American heart. Independence
Day—the Fourth of July—is observed in every State in the Union as our
distinctive national holiday; and rightly so, for the event which it
celebrates is by far the most important in American history—an event no
less, indeed, than the birth of the nation.

Independence Day celebrates the signing, on the Fourth of July, 1776, of
the paper which declared this country forever free from British rule. It
had been under consideration for some time by the Continental Congress,
assembled at Philadelphia, and final action was finally taken on July
4. From that time forward, the American colonists were no longer rebels
in arms against their country, but a free people fighting for their
independence.

That the Declaration of Independence was mainly the work of Thomas
Jefferson has been established beyond reasonable doubt; and it stands
to-day one of the most remarkable state papers in the history of the
world.

At the time of the passage of the act, John Adams wrote to his wife
a letter which has become historic. “I am apt to believe,” he wrote,
“that this day will be celebrated by succeeding generations as the
great anniversary festival. It ought to be commemorated as the day of
deliverance, by solemn acts of devotion to God Almighty. It ought to be
solemnized with pomp and parade, with shows, games, sports, guns, bells,
bonfires, and illuminations, from one end of this continent to the other,
from this time forward forevermore.”

Bonfires and guns there have been without limit; and the deaths that have
resulted from these celebrations would form no inconsiderable fraction
of those lost during the Revolution. For years, the celebration of this
great holiday has consisted mainly of meaningless noise; but there is a
steadily growing sentiment in favor of a more worthy observance of the
day, as a time when every loyal American should rejoice in the welfare
of his country, and recall with pride the manner in which the Nation was
established.


THE NATION’S BIRTHDAY

BY MARY E. VANDYNE

    Ring out the joy bells! Once again,
      With waving flags and rolling drums,
    We greet the Nation’s Birthday, when,
      In glorious majesty, it comes.
    Ah, day of days! Alone it stands,
      While, like a halo round it cast,
    The radiant work of patriot hands,
      Shines the bright record of the past.

    Among the nations of the earth,
      What land hath story like our own?
    No thought of conquest marked her birth;
      No greed of power was ever shown
    By those who crossed the ocean wild,
      That they might plant upon her sod
    A home for Peace and Virtue mild,
      And altars rear to Freedom’s God.

    How grand the thought that bade them roam!
      Those pilgrim bands, by Faith inspired—
    That bade them leave their cherished home,
      And, with the martyr’s spirit fired,
    Guide their frail vessels o’er the main
      Upon the glorious mission bound
    On alien soil a grave to gain,
      Or else a free born nation found.

    What land has heroes like to ours?
      Their names are as the lightning’s gleams,
    When, on the darkling cloud that lowers,
      In blinding majesty it streams.
    Great Washington, the man of faith,
      Who conquered doubt with patient might;
    Warren and Putnam, true till death,
      The “Swamp Fox,” eager for the fight.

    See Major Molly’s woman hand
      Drive home the murderous cannon ball;
    How bravely Lydia Darrach planned,
      For home and country risking all.
    A glorious list, and without end;
      Forgotten were both sex and age;
    Their names in radiant luster blend,
      And shine like stars on history’s page.

    Like stars to light the firmament,
      And show the world what men may do
    Who, as God’s messengers, are sent
      And to their mission still are true.
    No end had they to seek or gain;
      Their work was there before their sight;
    There lay their duty, stern and plain,
      To dare and suffer for the right.

    The right that conquered, and whose power
      Is shown in our broad land to-day;
    Shown in this bright and prosperous hour,
      When peace and plenty gild our way;
    Shown in the glorious song that swells
      The hearts of men from South to North,
    And in its rapturous accents tell
      The story of our glorious Fourth.


HOW THE FOURTH OF JULY SHOULD BE CELEBRATED

BY JULIA WARD HOWE

I have been invited to present some hints as to the proper observance of
our great national holiday, the Fourth of July, and the false education
implied by warlike celebrations in a nation whose corner stone is peace
and whose freedom is a standing protest against old-world militarism.

The topic carries me back in thought to days of childhood, when, in
my native city of New York, the endless crackling of torpedoes, the
explosion of firecrackers and the booming of cannon, made the day one of
joyous confusion and fatigue, culminating in a distant view of the city
fireworks sent up from Castle Garden. It then seemed to be a day wholly
devoted to boyish pleasure and mischief, sure to be followed by reports
of hairbreadth escapes and injuries more or less serious, sometimes even
fatal. The day was one of terror to parents, who, while deeming it unwise
to interdict to their sons the enjoyment of gunpowder, dreaded to see
them maimed or disfigured for life by some unlooked-for accident. It was
not uncommon then, nor is it now, to read of some sudden death, some
irretrievable blindness or other injury caused by the explosion of a toy
cannon or the misadventure of some fireworks on “the Fourth,” as the day
has come to be called.

These were tragical events truly, but they appear less real to me in
remembrance than do the laughing faces of my young brothers who were
allowed to arrange a small table for their greater convenience on the
pavement of ancient Bond Street, a very quiet byway in those days. From
this spot went forth a perpetual popping and fizzing, varied by the
occasional thud of a double-headed firecracker. Shouts of merriment
followed these explosions. The girls within doors enjoyed the fracas
from the open windows, and in the evening our good elders brought forth
a store of Roman candles, blue lights, and rockets. I remember a year,
early in the thirties, in which good Gideon Lee, a democratic Mayor of
New York, issued an edict prohibitive of all home fireworks. Just as we
had settled ourselves in the determination to regard him thenceforth as
our natural enemy, the old gentleman’s heart failed him, and, living next
door to us, he called to say that he would make a few exceptions to the
rule for the day, and that we should count among these.

Removing to Boston some ten years later, I found the night of the third
of July rendered almost sleepless by the shrill gamut of gunpowder
discharges. The ringing of bells and the booming of cannon destroyed the
last chance of an early morning nap, and in self-defense most people left
their beds and went forth to see what could be seen. This was sometimes
a mock procession of the Antiques and Horribles, so called in parody of
the Ancient and Honorable Artillery, so well known in and about Boston.
Or, one might join the throng on the Common, where a brass band performed
popular airs, American and Irish-American. I do indeed recall certain
notable performances connected with the usual observance of the National
Festival. I was a dweller in Boston when Charles Sumner, then chiefly
known as a rising lawyer and incipient philanthropist, was appointed to
deliver the Fourth of July oration, and chose for his theme the true
grandeur of nations. This grandeur he found entirely in the conquests of
peace as opposed to the popular worship of military renown. His audience,
composed in part of men in soldier’s garb, were but little in sympathy
with his views, and I remember the performance as having called forth
more irritation than approbation.

These prophetic glimpses of good which seem far from the practical
questions of the time do visit earnest souls in this way, like some ray
of light from an undiscovered star. The same train of thought, at about
the same time, took shape in Mr. Longfellow’s fine poem on the Arsenal
in Springfield. It may be remembered that the poet was Mr. Sumner’s
most intimate friend. While the two men held the same views regarding
the great questions of the time, Mr. Longfellow’s _bonhomie_ rendered
him very inapt to give offense, while Sumner seemed destined to arouse
violent opposition in those from whom he differed.

I remember another Fourth of July at which Edward Everett’s measured
rhetoric and silver voice held the attention of a numerous assemblage.
Mr. Everett was certainly master of the art of graceful oratory, and
was always heard with appreciation, even by those who felt little
satisfaction in his public career.

One of Ralph Waldo Emerson’s finest poems was written for the celebration
of the Fourth in his own town of Concord. The two opening lines of this
dwell always in my memory:

    “Oh! tenderly the haughty Day
      Fills his blue urn with fire.”

But, beautiful as they are, the solemn lesson of the poet exceeds them in
interest.

    “United States! the Ages plead,
      Present and Past in under-song;
    Go, put your creed into your deed,
      Nor speak with double tongue.

    “Be just at home, then write your scroll
      Of honor o’er the sea,
    And bid the broad Atlantic roll
      A ferry of the Free.”

Here is a thought picture which we may love to dwell upon. Emerson, the
descendant of the Puritans, himself a transfigured Puritan, reading these
stanzas of his, whose fire is tempered by the weight of thought, in that
old town of Concord, where, in his own phrase:

    “—the embattled farmers stood,
    And fired the shot heard round the world.”

A fiercer fight was then before us, whose issue is simply prefigured in
the words: “_Be just at home_.” Surely, we might take this saying for a
national motto, its reminder still needed, though the slave is freed from
the whip and fetter. Of the day on which our Independence was declared
John Adams said:

“It ought to be commemorated as the day of deliverance by solemn acts of
devotion to God Almighty. It ought to be celebrated with pomp and parade,
with shows, games, sports, guns, bells, bonfires, and illuminations,
from one end of this continent to the other, from this time forward
forevermore.”

These words show how comprehensive was the view which the old statesman
took of a Nation’s holiday. He desired that all classes and all ages
should participate in the joy expressed. The time which has elapsed since
his memorable utterance has brought nothing to diminish this joy. It has
however brought into being a new society for which “pomp and parade,
bells, guns and bonfires” are less available for good than pleasures of
a more elevated character. We now desire a celebration which shall speak
less to the bodily sense and more to the inner sense. This is because
the historic development of the race goes ever forward. John Adams would
have had both sober and wild rejoicing over the birth of a new state,
representing a new order of things. We stand face to face with the
question: How shall we maintain our deliverance from old-world trammels?
This freedom which was declared in 1776, what are its conditions, what
its true uses?

History is full of paradoxes whose meaning does not lie upon the surface
of what we see. Many of these recall the riddle of Samson: “Out of the
eater came forth meat, and out of the strong came forth sweetness.”
Even so, the things that make for peace often come out of contests full
of violence and bloodshed, while the elements of anarchy ripen best
in the submission enforced by autocratic despotism, the ominous quiet
which is sure to be broken by some terrific social cataclysm. In the
first instance, which alone concerns our theme, we must remember that
the bloodshed came, not of the peaceable principles of eternal justice,
but of the effort on the part of tyrants to gainsay and oppose these.
It follows from this that in commemorating the events which have had
most to do with the liberation of mankind from the yoke of despotism
and superstition, we must keep in view these underlying truths which in
themselves involve no violence, but the vindication of which may involve
great sacrifices of devoted lives.

The fact that our heroes fought for freedom against almost hopeless
odds should be brought to mind, and their names should be hallowed in
perpetual remembrance. But, if we would crown their conquest, we must
give more attention to the good for which they died than to the mere
circumstance of their death. The ordinary procedure of mankind is quite
the opposite of this. They are proud of the military success, careless
of the civic and ethical gain. Even the Christian church accentuates
too much the death of its Founder, is too little concerned with the
truth for which he really gave his life. A Lent of prayer and fasting,
with dramatic repetition of the betrayal and crucifixion of the Blessed
One, may merely bring with it suggestions of devotion and gratitude.
But far more important would be a Lent of study of the deep meaning of
his words and works. It makes one sick at heart to think of the formal
rehearsal of great events by those who have no understanding of their
true significance, and can therefore claim but a small part in their real
benefit.

The parallelisms too of history are very instructive. In the confusions
and difficulties of our own time it is useful for us to learn that men
in other times have had similar problems to solve, and have found their
solutions. It is helpful for us to know that our pure and blameless
Washington was, in his day, the subject of malignant slander and
mischievous cabal. Our own best public men are liable to the grossest
misinterpretations of their utterances and of their measures. Unworthy
demagogues to-day will present very dangerous evils in a light attractive
to the multitude. This has always been so. No man marches to victory
over a bed of roses. The roses crown his perseverances, but the thorns
lacerate his bleeding feet. But, with these sad recollections, we must
keep in sight the immortal hope sung by the poets, reasoned out by the
philosophers, and acted out by earth’s saints and heroes, the hope which
is justified by the great progress of the ages, the elevation of the
natural man into the dignity of the spiritual man.

Elizabeth Barrett Browning, who saw one of the great Italian festivals in
which the poet Dante was especially commemorated, saw also the pressing
need of wise counsel and brave action throughout the struggling country,
and asks what will become of the new Italy if her young men shall “stand
still strewing violets all the time?” We may ask too what will become
of our new Republic if the hours of its highest festival continue to be
occupied with fustian oratory, gunpowder enthusiasm, and the exercise of
every poor and mean trade, the sale of toys, bad food, and worse liquor?

Now, I would by no means abridge the childish pleasure of the day, if
I could do so. We must allow children the explosion of animal spirits,
and they will delight, as some grown-up people will, in much that is
irrational. But the day itself is too important to be made one of mere
noise and parade. It should be made highly valuable for impressing upon
the minds of the young the history of their national liberty, and its
cause. Besides our own young people, we have with us the youth of many
nations, whose parents have come to our shores, drawn by various hopes
of gain and benefit. These children will form an important part of our
future body politic, in whose government to-day, their parents are, too,
easily able to participate.

The question will be, how to make the Fourth of July a true festival, a
national solemnity, without forgetting the claims of the young to be
amused, as well as to be instructed. In the first place, I should think
that the day might fitly be made one of reunion, by different clubs and
associations of culture and philanthropy. Those whose thoughts go deep
enough to understand the true conditions of human freedom, might meet and
compare their studies and experiences. Very fitly, after such a meeting,
each individual of them might seek a group, to whose members he might
present a popular statement of the philosophy of freedom. Mothers, who
should be the true guardians of peace, might well come together to study
all that promotes its maintenance. In gatherings of older children, prize
essays might be presented and discussed. I can imagine civic banquets,
of a serious and stately character, in which men and women might sit
together and pledge each other, in the exhilaration of friendship and
good feeling.

I would have processions, but I would have them less military in
character, and more pacific in suggestion. Congregations of the various
religious confessions might walk in order, headed by their ministers,
who should all exchange the right hand of fellowship with each other. I
would have no monster concerts, which cannot be fully enjoyed, but divers
assemblages, at which music of the highest order should be presented.
Letters of greeting should be exchanged between cities and states,
and the device of the day should be, “In the Name of the Republic.”
The history of the war which culminated in our national independence
should be amply illustrated by graphic lectures, and possibly by living
pictures. Mr. John Fiske has an admirable talent for bringing the past
and its heroes as vividly before us as if he himself had seen them but
the day before. If it were possible to multiply his valued personality, I
would have many sketches given in various places, of the brave struggle
of our forefathers and of those who were foremost in it.

“Going out of town to avoid the Fourth,” has been a phrase so common in
my time that it ceases to awaken attention, and is taken as a matter
of course. I cannot indeed wonder that people of refined tastes and
sensitive nerves should seek to free themselves from the noise and
crowd of the usual observance. The question is whether, with a wiser
administration, the same people might not be led to gather, rather than
to disperse for the celebration.

How would the following programme answer?

On the evening of the third of July, quiet gatherings in halls or
churches, in which the true love of country should be explained and
illustrated. How many a name, half or wholly forgotten, would then be
recalled from oblivion, and with it the labor and sacrifice of some noble
life, some example precious for the community!

The morning of the Fourth to be ushered in by martial music, and a
military display sufficient to recall the services of the brave men who
gave our fathers liberty. At ten o’clock orations in various public
buildings, the ablest speakers of the commonwealth doing their best to
impart the lesson of the day. At one a Spartan feast, wholesome and
simple. No liquor to be served thereat, and none to be sold during
the day. From twelve to half past four in the afternoon, I would have
exercises for the children of the public schools, examination of classes
in American history, prizes given for essays on historical and patriotic
subjects. Later, a gathering in public gardens, and a tea, with fruit and
flowers, served for the children of the city. In the evening, the singing
of national anthems, _tableaux vivants_ and fireworks, and in some form,
a pastoral benediction.

To these exercises I would add the signing of a pledge of good
citizenship. We take much pains, and not unwisely, to persuade men and
women to sign a pledge of total abstinence from alcoholic liquors.
But why should we not go further than this, and lead them to pledge
themselves to some useful service in the community? This pledge might
be either general or particular in its terms, but the act of signing it
should imply a disinterested public service of some sort, a participation
in some work useful for the health, beauty, or order of the city, without
other reward than the badge or button which would represent the agreement
entered into. I would have the history of other Republics brought forward
on this day, and especially, the heroic struggles of our own time. Among
these, I would certainly accord a place to the story of the great-hearted
men to whom Italy owes her freedom. And I would if I could compel the
attendance of our men and women of fashion upon lectures in which the
true inwardness of European society should be exposed, and the danger
shown of the follies and luxurious pomp which they delight in imitating,
and which, however æsthetically adorned and disguised, are for us to lead
in the pathway of moral and intellectual deterioration.

I would have the great political offenses of the century fitly shown,
the crimes of Louis Napoleon, the rapacious wars of Germany, France and
England, the wicked persecution of the Jews. Now that we are nearing
the close of our nineteenth century, it becomes most important for us
that its historic record should be truly rehearsed, its great saints and
sinners characterized, its wonderful discoveries and inventions explained.

The very meager programme suggested here for our great day may appear to
many Utopian and impossible. I shall be glad if it can serve to pave the
way for kindred suggestions, to which individual minds may give a broader
and more varied scope. Let us unite our efforts in behalf of a suitable
and serious honoring of the day in such wise that every heart, old and
young, shall have therein its especial joy, and every mind its especial
lesson.

I had at one time a plan of my own, of setting apart one day in the
year as a Mother’s Day. This festival was to be held in the interest
of a world’s peace, and for quite a number of years it was so observed
by groups of women in various parts of the country, while in England
and even in far-off Smyrna friends met together, with song, prayer,
and earnest discourse to emphasize the leading thought, which was that
women, as the mothers of the race, knowing fully the cost of human life,
should unite their efforts throughout the world to restrain the horrors
of war, and to persuade men to keep the sacred bond of peace. It now
occurs to me that we should make our Fourth of July a Mother’s, as well
as a Father’s day. In the public programme of every town throughout our
vast Commonwealth, women should have some word to say and some part to
play. What we have already seen of their culture and ability is enough to
assure us that their participation in such proceedings would intensify
their good features and discourage their objectionable ones. And as in
the forms of oratory with which we are familiar, much is made of what the
world owes to America, we might suggest that our women speakers might
especially bring forward the antithesis of this question, in another,
viz., What America owes to the world.




II

SPIRIT AND SIGNIFICANCE


ENGLAND AND AMERICA

BY JAMES BRYCE

This is a memorable day to Englishmen as well as to Americans. It is to
us a day both of regret and of rejoicing: of regret at the severance
of the political connection which bound the two branches of our race
together, and of regret even more for the unhappy errors which brought
that severance about, and the unhappy strife by which the memory of it
was embittered. But it is also a day of rejoicing, for it is the birthday
of the eldest daughter of England—the day when a new nation, sprung from
our own, first took its independent place in the world. And now with the
progress of time, rejoicing has prevailed over regret, and we in England
can at length join heartily with you in celebrating the beginning of your
national life. All sense of bitterness has passed away, and been replaced
by sympathy with all which this anniversary means to an American heart.

England and America now understand one another far better than they ever
did before. In 1776 there was on one side a monarch and a small ruling
caste, on the other side a people. Now our government can no longer
misrepresent the nation, and across the ocean a people speaks to a
people. We have both come, and that most notably within recent months, to
perceive that all over the world the interests of America and of England
are substantially the same.

The sense of our underlying unity over against the other races and forms
of civilization has been a potent force in drawing us together. It is
said that the Fourth of July is a day of happy augury for mankind. This
is true because on that day America entered on a course and proclaimed
principles of government which have been of profound significance for
mankind. Many nations have had a career of conquest and of civilizing
dominion: but to make an immense people prosperous, happy, and free is a
nobler and grander achievement than the most brilliant conquests and the
widest dominion.


THE BIRTHDAY OF THE NATION

(From address delivered July 4, 1851, at laying the cornerstone of the
new wing of the Capitol.)

BY DANIEL WEBSTER

This is that day of the year which announced to mankind the great fact
of American Independence! This fresh and brilliant morning blesses our
vision with another beholding of the birthday of our Nation; and we
see that Nation, of recent origin, now among the most considerable and
powerful, and spreading from sea to sea over the continent.

On the fourth day of July, 1776, the representatives of the United States
of America, in Congress assembled, declared that these Colonies are,
and ought to be, free and independent States. This declaration, made by
most patriotic and resolute men, trusting in the justice of their cause
and the protection of Heaven,—and yet not without deep solicitude and
anxiety—has now stood for seventy-five years. It was sealed in blood.
It has met dangers and overcome them. It has had detractors, and abashed
them all. It has had enemies, and conquered them. It has had doubting
friends, but it has cleared all doubts away; and now, to-day, raising its
august form higher than the clouds, twenty millions of people contemplate
it with hallowed love, and the world beholds it, and the consequences
that have followed from it, with profound admiration.

This anniversary animates and gladdens all American hearts. On other days
of the year we may be party men, indulging in controversies more or less
important to the public good. We may have likes and dislikes, and we may
maintain our political differences, often with warm, and sometimes with
angry feelings. But to-day we are Americans all; nothing but Americans.

As the great luminary over our heads, dissipating fogs and mist, now
cheers the whole atmosphere, so do the associations connected with this
day disperse all sullen and cloudy weather in the minds and feelings of
true Americans. Every man’s heart swells within him. Every man’s port
and bearing becomes somewhat more proud and lofty as he remembers that
seventy-five years have rolled away, and that the great inheritance of
Liberty is still his,—his, undiminished and unimpaired; his, in all its
original glory; his to enjoy; his to protect; his to transmit to future
generations.


THE FOURTH OF JULY

BY CHARLES LEONARD MOORE

(From _The Forum_.)

    Let be the herds and what the harvest brings;
    Give to oblivion all that’s sold and bought,
    The count of unrememberable things;—
    Our better birthright is this day’s report!
    Live our sires in us? Keep we their old skill
    To know Occasion’s whisper and be great?
    Can our proud blood in one contagious thrill
    Put admiration in the eyes of Fate?
    Wide is our realm, and twin seas feel our yoke,
    Aye, and the oarless ocean of the North;—
    Are we then mightier than that scattered folk,
    That fringe of clingers by the sea-beach froth
      Whose loins begat us? Let to-morrow show
      If their stern arts hereditary grow.


LIFT UP YOUR HEARTS

ANONYMOUS

_Sursum corda._ We have in our own time seen the Republic survive an
irrepressible conflict, sown in the blood and marrow of the social order.
We have seen the Federal Union, not too strongly put together in the
first place, come out of a great war of sections stronger than when it
went into it, its faith renewed, its credit rehabilitated, and its flag
saluted with love and homage by sixty millions of God-fearing men and
women, thoroughly reconciled and homogeneous. We have seen the Federal
Constitution outlast the strain, not merely of a Reconstructory ordeal
and a Presidential impeachment, but a disputed count of the Electoral
vote, a Congressional deadlock, and an extra constitutional tribunal, yet
standing firm against the assaults of its enemies, while yielding itself
with admirable flexibility to the needs of the country and the time. And
finally we saw the gigantic fabric of the Federal Government transferred
from the hands that held it a quarter of a century to other hands,
without a protest, although so close was the poll in the final count
that a single blanket might have covered both contestants for the Chief
Magisterial office. With such a record behind us, who shall be afraid of
the future?

The young manhood of the country may take this lesson from those of us
who lived through times that did indeed try men’s souls—when, pressed
down from day to day by awful responsibilities and suspense, each night
brought a terror with every thought of the morrow, and when, look where
we would, there were light and hope nowhere—that God reigns and wills,
and that this fair land is and has always been in His own keeping.

The curse of slavery is gone. It was a joint heritage of woe, to be wiped
out and expiated in blood and flame. The mirage of the Confederacy has
vanished. It was essentially bucolic, a vision of Arcadie, the dream of
a most attractive economic fallacy. The Constitution is no longer a rope
of sand. The exact relation of the States to the Federal Government,
left open to double construction by the authors of our organic being,
because they could not agree among themselves, and union was the
paramount object, has been clearly and definitely fixed by the three
last amendments to the original chart, which constitute the real treaty
of peace between the North and the South, and seal our bonds as a nation
forever.

The Republic represents at last the letter and the spirit of the sublime
Declaration. The fetters that bound her to the earth are burst asunder.
The rags that degraded her beauty are cast aside. Like the enchanted
princess in the legend, clad in spotless raiment and wearing a crown of
living light, she steps in the perfection of her maturity upon the scene
of this, the latest and proudest of her victories, to bid welcome to the
world.

Need I pursue the theme? This vast assemblage speaks with a resonance and
meaning which words can never reach. It speaks from the fields that are
blessed by the never-failing waters of the Kennebec and from the farms
that sprinkle the valley of the Connecticut with mimic principalities
more potent and lasting than the real; it speaks in the whirr of the
mills of Pennsylvania and in the ring of the wood-cutter’s axe from the
forests of the lake peninsulas; it speaks from the great plantations of
the South and West, teeming with staples that insure us wealth and power
and stability, yea, from the mines and forests and quarries of Michigan
and Wisconsin, of Alabama and Georgia, of Tennessee and Kentucky far away
to the regions of silver and gold, that have linked the Colorado and the
Rio Grande in close embrace, and annihilated time and space between the
Atlantic and the Pacific; it speaks in one word, from the hearthstone in
Iowa and Illinois, from the home in Mississippi and Arkansas, from the
hearts of seventy millions of fearless, freeborn men and women, and that
one word is “Union!”

There is no geography in American manhood. There are no sections to
American fraternity. It needs but six weeks to change a Vermonter into a
Texan, and there has never been a time, when, upon the battle-field, or
the frontier, Puritan and Cavalier were not convertible terms, having in
the beginning a common origin, and so diffused and diluted on American
soil as no longer to possess a local habitation or a nativity, except in
the National unit.

The men who planted the signals of American civilization upon that sacred
Rock by Plymouth Bay were Englishmen, and so were the men who struck the
coast a little lower down, calling their haven of rest after the great
Republican commoner, and founding by Hampton Roads a race of heroes and
statesmen, the mention of whose names brings a thrill to every heart.
The South claims Lincoln, the immortal, for its own; the North has no
right to reject Stonewall Jackson, the one typical Puritan soldier of
the war, for its own! Nor will it! The time is coming, is almost here,
when hanging above a mantel-board in fair New England—glorifying many a
cottage in the sunny South—shall be seen bound together, in everlasting
love and honor, two cross swords carried to battle respectively by the
grandfather who wore the blue and the grandfather who wore the gray.

God bless our country’s flag! and God be with us now and ever. God in the
roof-tree’s shade and God on the highway, God in the winds and waves, and
God in our hearts!


ENGLAND AND THE FOURTH OF JULY

BY W. T. STEAD

(From _The Independent_.)

I wish with all my heart that we could adopt the Fourth of July
as the Festival Day of the whole English-speaking race. If this
suggestion should seem strange to Americans, it is not unfamiliar to
many Englishmen. We consider that the triumph of the American revolt
against George III was a vindication of the essentially English idea of
democratic self-government, and we believe that we have benefited by it
almost as much as the Americans. It taught us a lesson which made the
British Colonial Empire a possibility, and if we are now involved in a
suicidal war in South Africa, it is largely because our Government has
forgotten the principles of George Washington, and has gone back to the
principles of George III.

For some years past I have presided at a distinctly British celebration
of the Fourth of July at my brother’s settlement in Southeast London,
at Browning Hall, and I have always repudiated the idea that Americans
should be allowed to monopolize the Fourth of July. It is one of the
great days of the English-speaking race in the celebration of which all
members of the English-speaking nations should participate.


SOME EARLY INDEPENDENCE DAY ADDRESSES


ADDRESS OF JOEL BARLOW (JULY 4, 1787)

(At Hartford, Conn.)

On the anniversary of so great an event as the birth of the empire in
which we live, none will question the propriety of passing a few moments
in contemplating the various objects suggested to the mind by the
important occasion; and while the nourishment, the growth, and even the
existence of our empire depend upon the united efforts of an extensive
and divided people, the duties of this day ascend from amusement and
congratulation to a serious patriotic employment.

We are assembled, not to boast, but to realize, not to inflate our
national vanity by a pompous relation of past achievements in the council
or the field, but, from a modest retrospect of the truly dignified part
already acted by our countrymen, from an accurate view of our present
situation, and from an anticipation of the scenes that remain to be
unfolded, to discern and familiarize the duties that still await us as
citizens, as soldiers, and as men.

Revolutions in other countries have been affected by accident. The
faculties of human reason and the rights of human nature have been the
sport of chance and the prey of ambition. When indignation has burst the
bands of slavery, to the destruction of one tyrant, it was only to impose
the manacles of another. This arose from the imperfection of that early
stage of society, the foundations of empires being laid in ignorance,
with a total inability of foreseeing the improvements of civilization, or
of adapting government to a state of social refinement. On the western
continent a new task, totally unknown to the legislators of other
nations, was imposed upon the fathers of the American empire. Here was
a people, lords of the soil on which they trod, commanding a prodigious
length of coast, and an equal breadth of frontier, a people habituated to
liberty, professing a mild and benevolent religion, and highly advanced
in science and civilization. To conduct such a people in a revolution,
the address must be made to reason, as well as the passions.

In what other age or nation has a people, at ease upon their own farms,
secure and distant from the approach of fleets and armies, tide-waiters
and stamp-masters, reasoned, before they had felt, and, from the dictates
of duty and conscience, encountered dangers, distress, and poverty, for
the sake of securing to posterity a government of independence and peace?
Here was no Cromwell to inflame the people with bigotry and zeal; no
Cæsar to reward his followers with the spoils of vanquished foes; and
no territory to be acquired by conquest. Ambition, superstition, and
avarice, those universal torches of war, never illumined an American
field of battle. But the permanent principles of sober policy spread
through the colonies, roused the people to assert their rights, and
conducted the revolution. Those principles were noble, as they were new
and unprecedented in the history of human nations. The majority of a
great people, on a subject which they understand, will never act wrong.

Our duty calls us to act worthy of the age and the country that gave
us birth. Every possible encouragement for great and generous exertions
is presented before us. The natural resources are inconceivably various
and great. The enterprising genius of the people promises a most rapid
improvement in all the arts that embellish human nature. The blessings of
a rational government will invite emigrations from the rest of the world
and fill the empire with the worthiest and happiest of mankind; while
the example of political wisdom and sagacity, here to be displayed, will
excite emulation through the kingdoms of the earth, and meliorate the
condition of the human race.


ADDRESS OF JOHN QUINCY ADAMS (JULY 4, 1793)

(At Boston.)

Americans! let us pause for a moment to consider the situation of our
country at that eventful day when our national existence commenced. In
the full possession and enjoyment of all those prerogatives for which you
then dared to adventure upon “all the varieties of untried being,” the
calm and settled moderation of the mind is scarcely competent to conceive
the tone of heroism to which the souls of freemen were exalted in that
hour of perilous magnanimity.

Seventeen times has the sun, in the progress of his annual revolution,
diffused his prolific radiance over the plains of independent America.
Millions of hearts, which then palpitated with the rapturous glow of
patriotism, have already been translated to brighter worlds; to the
abodes of more than mortal freedom.

Other millions have arisen, to receive from their parents and
benefactors an inestimable recompense of their achievements.

A large proportion of the audience, whose benevolence is at this moment
listening to the speaker of the day, like him, were at that period too
little advanced beyond the threshold of life to partake of the divine
enthusiasm which inspired the American bosom; which prompted her voice
to proclaim defiance to the thunders of Britain; which consecrated the
banners of her armies; and finally erected the holy temple of American
Liberty over the tomb of departed tyranny.

It is from those who have already passed the meridian of life; it is from
you, ye venerable assertors of the rights of mankind, that we are to be
informed what were the feelings which swayed within your breasts and
impelled you to action; when, like the stripling of Israel, with scarcely
a weapon to attack, and without a shield for your defense, you met and,
undismayed, engaged with the gigantic greatness of the British power.

Untutored in the disgraceful science of human butchery; destitute of
the fatal materials which the ingenuity of man has combined to sharpen
the scythe of death; unsupported by the arm of any friendly alliance,
and unfortified against the powerful assaults of an unrelenting enemy,
you did not hesitate at that moment, when your coasts were infested by
a formidable fleet, when your territories were invaded by a numerous
and veteran army, to pronounce the sentence of eternal separation from
Britain, and to throw the gauntlet at a power, the terror of whose recent
triumphs was almost coextensive with the earth.

The interested and selfish propensities which, in times of prosperous
tranquillity, have such powerful dominion over the heart, were all
expelled, and in their stead the public virtues, the spirit of personal
devotion to the common cause, a contempt of every danger, in comparison
with the subserviency of the country, had assumed an unlimited control.

The passion for the public had absorbed all the rest, as the glorious
luminary of heaven extinguishes, in a flood of refulgence, the twinkling
splendor of every inferior planet. Those of you, my countrymen, who were
actors in those interesting scenes will best know how feeble and impotent
is the language of this description, to express the impassioned emotions
of the soul with which you were then agitated.

Yet it were injustice to conclude from thence, or from the greater
prevalence of private and personal motives in these days of calm
serenity, that your sons have degenerated from the virtues of their
fathers. Let it rather be a subject of pleasing reflection to you that
the generous and disinterested energies which you were summoned to
display, are permitted, by the bountiful indulgence of heaven, to remain
latent in the bosoms of your children.

From the present prosperous appearance of our public affairs, we may
admit a rational hope that our country will have no occasion to require
of us those extraordinary and heroic exertions, which it was your fortune
to exhibit.

But from the common versatility of all human destiny, should the prospect
hereafter darken, and the clouds of public misfortune thicken to a
tempest; should the voice of our country’s calamity ever call us to her
relief, we swear, by the precious memory of the sages who toiled and of
the heroes who bled in her defense, that we will prove ourselves not
unworthy of the prize which they so dearly purchased; that we will act
as the faithful disciples of those who so magnanimously taught us the
instructive lesson of republican virtue.


EXTRACT FROM ADDRESS OF JOHN LATHROP (JULY 4, 1796)

(At Boston.)

In the war for independence America had but one object in view, for
in independence are concentrated and condensed every blessing that
makes life desirable, every right and privilege which can tend to the
happiness, or secure the native dignity, of man. In the attainment of
independence were all their passions, their desires, and their powers
engaged. The intrepidity and magnanimity of their armies, the wisdom and
inflexible firmness of their Congress, the ardency of their patriotism,
their unrepining patience when assailed by dangers and perplexed with
aggravated misfortune, have long and deservedly employed the pen of
panegyric and the tongue of oratory.

Through the whole Revolutionary conflict a consistency and systematic
regularity were preserved, equally honorable as extraordinary. The unity
of design and classically correct arrangement of the series of incidents
which completed the epic story of American independence, were so
wonderful, so well wrought, that political Hypercriticism was abashed at
the mighty production, and forced to join her sister, Envy, in applauding
the glorious composition.

On the last page of Fate’s eventful volume, with the raptured ken of
prophecy, I behold Columbia’s name recorded, her future honors and
happiness inscribed. In the same important book, the approaching end of
tyranny and the triumph of right and justice are written, in indelible
characters. The struggle will soon be over; the tottering thrones of
despots will quickly fall, and bury their proud incumbents in their massy
ruins.


THE FOURTH OF JULY

BY CHARLES SPRAGUE

    To the sages who spoke, to the heroes who bled,
      To the day and the deed, strike the harp-strings of glory!
    Let the song of the ransomed remember the dead,
      And the tongue of the eloquent hallow the story!
        O’er the bones of the bold
        Be the story long told,
      And on fame’s golden tablets their triumphs enrolled
    Who on freedom’s green hills freedom’s banner unfurled,
      And the beacon-fire raised that gave light to the world!

    They are gone—mighty men!—and they sleep in their fame:
      Shall we ever forget them? Oh, never! no, never!
    Let our sons learn from us to embalm each great name,
      And the anthem send down—“Independence forever!”
        Wake, wake, heart and tongue!
        Keep the theme ever young;
      Let their deeds through the long line of ages be sung
    Who on freedom’s green hills freedom’s banner unfurled,
    And the beacon-fire raised that gave light to the world!


OUR NATIONAL ANNIVERSARY

BY A. H. RICE

We celebrate to-day no idle tradition—the deeds of no fabulous race; for
we tread in the scarcely obliterated footsteps of an earnest and valiant
generation of men, who dared to stake life, and fortune, and sacred
honor, upon a declaration of rights, whose promulgation shook tyrants on
their thrones, gave hope to fainting freedom, and reformed the political
ethics of the world.

The greatest heroes of former days have sought renown in schemes of
conquest, based on the love of dominion or the thirst for war; and such
had been the worship of power in the minds of men, that adulation had
ever followed in the wake of victory. How daring then the trial of an
issue between a handful of oppressed and outlawed colonists, basing their
cause, under God, upon an appeal to the justice of mankind and their
own few valiant arms. And how immeasurably great was he, the fearless
commander, who, after the fortunes and triumph of battle were over,
scorned the thought of a regal throne in the hearts of his countrymen.
Amidst the rejoicings of this day, let us mingle something of gratitude
with our joy—something of reverence with our gratitude—and something of
duty with our reverence.

Let us cultivate personal independence in the spirit of loyalty to the
State, and may God grant that we may always be able to maintain the
sovereignty of the State in the spirit of integrity to the Union.

Whatever shall be the fate of other governments, ours thus sustained,
shall stand forever. As has been elsewhere said, nation after nation
may rise and fall, kingdoms and empires crumble into ruin, but our own
native land, gathering energy and strength from the lapse of time, shall
go on and still go on its destined way to greatness and renown. And when
thrones shall crumble into dust, when scepters and diadems shall have
been forgotten, till heaven’s last thunder shall shake the world below,
the flag of the Republic shall still wave on, and its Stars, its Stripes,
and its Eagle, shall still float in pride, and strength, and glory,

    “Whilst the earth bears a plant,
    Or the sea rolls a wave.”


AMERICA’S NATAL DAY

BY JAMES GILLESPIE BLAINE

The United States is the only country with a known birthday. All the
rest began, they know not when, and grew into power, they know not how.
If there had been no Independence Day, England and America combined
would not be so great as each actually is. There is no “Republican,” no
“Democrat,” on the Fourth of July,—all are Americans. All feel that their
country is greater than party.


CRISES OF NATIONS

BY DR. FOSS

There are brief crises in which the drift of individual and national
history is determined, sometimes unexpectedly; critical moments on which
great decisions hang; days which, like a mountain in a plain, lift
themselves above the dead level of common days into everlasting eminence.
Our Day of Independence was such a day; so was the day of Marathon,
and the day of Waterloo. Napoleon admitted that the Austrians fought
grandly on the field of Rivoli, and said, “They failed because they do
not understand the value of minutes.” Humboldt refers the discovery
of America to “a wonderful concatenation of trivial circumstances,”
including a flight of parrots.


THE FOURTH OF JULY IN WESTMINSTER ABBEY

BY PHILLIPS BROOKS (JULY 4, 1880)

To all true men the birthday of a nation must always be a sacred thing.
For in our modern thought the nation is the making-place of man. Not
by the traditions of its history, nor by the splendor of its corporate
achievements, nor by the abstract excellence of its Constitution, but
by its fitness to make men, to beget and educate human character, to
contribute to the complete humanity the perfect man that is to be,—by
this alone each nation must be judged to-day. The nations are the golden
candlesticks which hold aloft the glory of the Lord. No candlestick can
be so rich or venerable that men shall honor it if it hold no candle.
“Show us your man,” land cried to land.

It is not for me to glorify to-night the country which I love with all my
heart and soul. I may not ask your praise for anything admirable which
the United States has been or done. But on my country’s birthday I may do
something far more solemn and more worthy of the hour. I may ask for your
prayers in her behalf: that on the manifold and wondrous chance which God
is giving her,—on her freedom (for she is free, since the old stain of
slavery was washed out in blood); on her unconstrained religious life; on
her passion for education and her eager search for truth; on her zealous
care for the poor man’s rights and opportunities; on her quiet homes
where the future generations of men are growing; on her manufactories
and her commerce; on her wide gates open to the east and to the west; on
her strange meeting of the races out of which a new race is slowly being
born; on her vast enterprise and her illimitable hopefulness,—on all
these materials and machineries of manhood, on all that the life of my
country must mean for humanity, I may ask you to pray that the blessing
of God, the Father of man, and Christ, the Son of man, may rest forever.




III

BEFORE THE DAWN OF INDEPENDENCE


AMERICA RESENTS BRITISH DICTATION

BY HENRY B. CARRINGTON

(From _The Patriotic Reader_, J. B. Lippincott & Co., Phila.)

During the agitation of 1765, concerning the British Stamp Act, a
convention of its opponents was assembled in New York City under the
name of “The Stamp Act Congress.” Among the most conspicuous of the
delegates from the Massachusetts Colony was James Otis. As early as 1761
he protested so earnestly against permitting the British officers of
the customs to have “writs of assistance” in their enforcement of the
British revenue laws, that John Adams, who listened to his argument, thus
described it:

“Otis was a flame of fire! With a promptitude of classical allusions,
a depth of research, a rapid summary of historical events and dates,
a profusion of legal authorities, a prophetic glance of his eye into
futurity, and a rapid torrent of impetuous eloquence, he hurried away all
before him. Every man of an immense audience appeared to me to go away,
as I did, ready to take up arms against any ‘writs of assistance.’”

The all-absorbing sentiment of his life, the wealth of his diction, and
the fire of his oratory have been embodied in a form which stands among
the best of American classics. In the romance of “The Rebels,” Miss Lydia
Maria Francis (afterwards Mrs. Child) introduces James Otis as a leading
character. After the opening statement, that “there was hurrying to and
fro through the streets of Boston on the night of the 14th of August,
1765,” his patriotic American woman shows such a right conception of
the power and oratory of Otis, as well as of the actual tone and spirit
of his times, that the fragments of her hero’s conversation during the
story, gathered in the form of a speech, have often been mistaken for
some actual appeal to the people of his period. The youth of America will
do well to keep it fresh in mind, and thereby honor both its author and
its subject.


SPEECH OF JAMES OTIS IN 1765

England may as well dam up the waters of the Nile with bulrushes as
to fetter the steps of Freedom, more proud and firm in this youthful
land than where she treads the sequestered glens of Scotland or couches
herself among the magnificent mountains of Switzerland. Arbitrary
principles, like those against which we now contend, have cost one king
of England his life, another his crown, and they may yet cost a third his
most flourishing colonies.

We are two millions, one-fifth fighting-men. We are bold and vigorous,
and we call no man master. To the nation from whom we are proud to derive
our origin we ever were, and we ever will be, ready to yield unforced
assistance; but it must not, and it never can be extorted.

Some have sneeringly asked, Are the Americans too poor to pay a few
pounds on stamped paper? No! America, thanks to God and herself, is rich.
But the right to take ten pounds implies the right to take a thousand;
and what must be the wealth that avarice, aided by power, cannot exhaust?
True, the specter is now small; but the shadow he casts before him is
huge enough to darken all this fair land.

Others, in sentimental style, talk of the immense debt of gratitude which
we owe to England. And what is the amount of this debt? Why, truly, it is
the same that the young lion owes to the dam which has brought it forth
on the solitude of the mountain, or left it amid the winds and storms of
the desert.

We plunged into the wave, with the great charter of freedom in our teeth,
because the fagot and torch were behind us. We have waked this new world
from its savage lethargy; forests have been prostrated in our path; towns
and cities have grown up suddenly as the flowers of the tropics; and the
fires in our autumnal woods are scarcely more rapid than the increase of
our wealth and population.

And do we owe all this to the kind succor of the mother-country? No; we
owe it to the tyranny that drove us from her; to the pelting storms which
invigorated our helpless infancy!

But perhaps others will say, We ask no money from your gratitude; we only
demand that you should pay your own expenses. And who, I pray, is to
judge of their necessity? Why, the king! (And, with all due reverence to
his sacred majesty, he understands the real wants of his distant subjects
as little as he does the language of the Choctaws.) Who is to judge
concerning the frequency of these demands? The ministry. Who is to judge
whether the money is properly expended? The cabinet behind the throne.

In every instance, those who take are to judge for those who pay. If this
system is suffered to go into operation, we shall have reason to esteem
it a great privilege that rain and dew do not depend upon Parliament;
otherwise, they would soon be taxed and dried.

But, thanks to God! There is freedom enough left upon earth to resist
such monstrous injustice. The flame of liberty is extinguished in Greece
and Rome, but the light of its glowing embers is still bright and strong
on the shores of America. Actuated by its sacred influence, we will
resist unto death.

But we will not countenance anarchy and misrule. The wrongs that a
desperate community have heaped upon their enemies shall be amply and
speedily repaired. Still, it is lighted in these colonies which one
breath of their king may kindle into such fury that the blood of all
England cannot extinguish it.


INDEPENDENCE A SOLEMN DUTY

BY RICHARD HENRY LEE

The time will certainly come when the fated separation between the
mother-country and these colonies must take place, whether you will or
no, for it is so decreed by the very nature of things, by the progressive
increase of our population, the fertility of our soil, the extent of our
territory, the industry of our countrymen, and the immensity of the ocean
which separates the two countries. And if this be true, as it is most
true, who does not see that the sooner it takes place the better?—that
it would be the height of folly not to seize the present occasion, when
British injustice has filled all hearts with indignation, inspired all
minds with courage, united all opinions in one, and put arms in every
hand? And how long must we traverse three thousand miles of a stormy sea
to solicit of arrogant and insolent men either counsel, or commands to
regulate our domestic affairs? From what we have already achieved it is
easy to presume what we shall hereafter accomplish. Experience is the
source of sage counsels, and liberty is the mother of great men. Have you
not seen the enemy driven from Lexington by citizens armed and assembled
in one day? Already their most celebrated generals have yielded in Boston
to the skill of ours. Already their seamen, repulsed from our coasts,
wander over the ocean, the sport of tempests and the prey of famine. Let
us hail the favorable omen, and fight, not for the sake of knowing on
what terms we are to be the slaves of England, but to secure to ourselves
a free existence, to found a just and independent government.

Why do we longer delay? why still deliberate? Let this most happy day
give birth to the American Republic. Let her arise, not to devastate
and conquer, but to reëstablish the reign of peace and the laws. The
eyes of Europe are fixed upon us; she demands of us a living example
of freedom that may contrast, by the felicity of her citizens, with
the ever-increasing tyranny which desolates her polluted shores. She
invites us to prepare an asylum where the unhappy may find solace and
the persecuted repose. She entreats us to cultivate a propitious soil,
where that generous plant which first sprang up and grew in England,
but is now withered by the poisonous blasts of Scottish tyranny, may
revive and flourish, sheltering under its salubrious and interminable
shade all the unfortunate of the human race. This is the end presaged
by so many omens; by our first victories; by the present ardor and
union; by the flight of Howe, and the pestilence which broke out among
Dunmore’s people; by the very winds which baffled the enemy’s fleets
and transports, and that terrible tempest which engulfed seven hundred
vessels upon the coast of Newfoundland.

If we are not this day wanting in our duty to our country, the names of
the American legislators will be placed, by posterity, at the side of
those of Theseus, of Lycurgus, of Romulus, of Numa, of the three Williams
of Nassau, and of all those whose memory has been and will be forever
dear to virtuous men and good citizens.


AN APPEAL FOR AMERICA

BY WILLIAM PITT (LORD CHATHAM)

(In Parliament, January 20, 1775)

_My Lords_:

These papers, brought to your table at so late a period of this business,
tell us what? Why, what all the world knew before: that the Americans,
irritated by repeated injuries, and stripped of their inborn rights and
dearest privileges, have resisted, and entered into associations for the
preservation of their common liberties.

Had the early situation of the people of Boston been attended to, things
would not have come to this. But the infant complaints of Boston were
literally treated like the capricious squalls of a child, who, it is
said, did not know whether it was aggrieved or not.

But full well I knew, at that time, that this child, if not redressed,
would soon assume the courage and voice of a man. Full well I knew that
the sons of ancestors, born under the same free constitution and once
breathing the same liberal air as Englishmen, would resist upon the same
principles and on the same occasions.

What has government done? They have sent an armed force consisting of
seventeen thousand men, to dragoon the Bostonians into what is called
their duty; and, so far from once turning their eyes to the policy and
destructive consequence of this scheme, are constantly sending out more
troops. And we are told, in the language of menace, that if seventeen
thousand men won’t do, fifty thousand shall.

It is true, my lords, with this force they may ravage the country, waste
and destroy as they march; but, in the progress of fifteen hundred miles,
can they occupy the places they have passed? Will not a country which can
produce three millions of people, wronged and insulted as they are, start
up like hydras in every corner, and gather fresh strength from fresh
opposition?

Nay, what dependence can you have upon the soldiery, the unhappy engines
of your wrath? They are Englishmen, who must feel for the privileges of
Englishmen. Do you think that these men can turn their arms against their
brethren? Surely no. A victory must be to them a defeat, and carnage a
sacrifice.

But it is not merely three millions of people, the produce of America, we
have to contend with in this unnatural struggle; many more are on their
side, dispersed over the face of this wide empire. Every Whig in this
country and in Ireland is with them.

In this alarming crisis I come with this paper in my hand to offer you
the best of my experience and advice; which is, that a humble petition be
presented to his Majesty, beseeching him that, in order to open the way
toward a happy settlement of the dangerous troubles in America, it may
graciously please him that immediate orders be given to General Gage for
removing his Majesty’s force from the town of Boston.

Such conduct will convince America that you mean to try her cause in the
spirit of freedom and inquiry, and not in letters of blood.

There is no time to be lost. Every hour is big with danger. Perhaps,
while I am now speaking, the decisive blow is struck which may involve
millions in the consequence. And, believe me, the very first drop of
blood which is shed will cause a wound which may never be healed.

When your lordships look at the papers transmitted to us from America,
when you consider their firmness, decency, and wisdom, you cannot but
respect their cause and wish to make it your own. For myself, I must
affirm, declare, and avow that, in all my reading and observation (and it
has been my favorite study, for I have read Thucydides, and have studied
and admired the master-states of the world), I say, I must declare that,
for solidity of reasoning, force of sagacity, and wisdom of conclusion,
under such a complication of difficult circumstances, no nation or body
of men can stand in preference to the General Congress at Philadelphia.
I trust it is obvious to your lordships that all attempts to impose
servitude upon such men, to establish despotism, over such a mighty
continental nation, must be vain, must be fatal.

We shall be forced, ultimately, to retract. Let us retract while we
can, not when we must. I say we must necessarily undo these violent,
oppressive acts. They Must be repealed. You Will repeal them. I pledge
myself for it that you will, in the end, repeal them. I stake my
reputation on it. I will consent to be taken for an idiot if they are not
finally repealed.


CONCILIATION OR WAR

EDMUND BURKE, IN PARLIAMENT, MARCH 22, 1775

We are called again, as it were by a superior warning voice, to attend to
America, and to review the subject with an unusual degree of calmness.
Surely, it is an awful subject, or there is none this side the grave. The
proposition is peace; not peace hunted through the medium of war, but
peace sought in its natural course, in its ordinary haunts, and laid in
principles purely pacific. I propose to restore the former unsuspecting
confidence of the colonies in the mother-country, and reconcile them each
to each. My hold of the colonies is in the close affection which grows
from common names, from kindred blood, from similar privileges and equal
protection. These are ties which, though light as air, are as strong as
links of iron.

Let the colonies always keep the idea of their civil rights associated
with your government; they will cling and grapple to you, and no force
under heaven will be of power to tear them from their allegiance. But
let it once be understood that your government may be one thing and
their privileges another; that these two things may exist without any
mutual relation; and the cement is gone, the cohesion is loosened, and
everything hastens to decay and dissolution.

As long as you have the wisdom to keep the sovereign authority of this
country as the sanctuary of liberty, the sacred temple consecrated to
our common faith, wherever the chosen race and sons of England worship
freedom, they will turn their faces towards you. The more they multiply,
the more friends you will have. The more ardently they love liberty, the
more perfect will be their obedience.

Slavery they can have anywhere. It is a weed that grows in every soil.
They may have it from Spain, they may have it from Prussia. But until
you become lost to all feelings of your true interest and your national
dignity, freedom they can have from none but you. This is the commodity
of price, of which you have the monopoly.

This is the true Act of Navigation, which binds to you the commerce of
the colonies, and through them secures to you the wealth of the world.
Deny them this participation of freedom, and you break that sole bond
which originally made, and must still preserve, the unity of the empire.

Do not entertain so weak an imagination as that your registers and
your bonds, your affidavits and your sufferances, your cockets and
your clearances, are what form the great securities of your commerce.
Do not dream that your letters of office, and your instructions, and
your suspending clauses, are the things that hold together the great
contexture of this mysterious whole.

These things do not make your government, dead instruments, passive tools
as they are; it is the spirit of the English constitution that gives
all their life and efficacy to them. It is the spirit of the English
constitution which, infused, through the mighty mass, pervades, feeds,
unites, invigorates, vivifies every part of the empire, even down to the
minutest member.

Is it not the same virtue which does everything for us here in England?
Do you imagine, then, that it is the land tax which raises your revenue?
that it is the annual vote in the committee of supply which gives you
your army? or that it is the mutiny bill which inspires it with bravery
and discipline?

No! surely no! It is the love of the people, it is their attachment to
their government from the sense of the deep stake they have in such
a glorious institution, which gives you your army and your navy, and
infuses into both that liberal obedience without which your army would be
a base rabble and your navy nothing but rotten timber.

All this, I know well enough, will sound wild and chimerical to the
profane herd of those vulgar and mechanical politicians who have no place
among us; a sort of people who think that nothing exists but what is
gross and material, and who, therefore, far from being qualified to be
directors of the great movement of empire, are not fit to turn a wheel in
the machine.

But to men truly initiated and rightly taught, these ruling and master
principles, which in the opinion of such men as I have mentioned have
no substantial existence, are, in truth, everything and all in all.
Magnanimity in politics is not seldom the truest wisdom, and a great
empire and little minds go ill together. If we are conscious of our
situation, and glow with zeal to fill our place as becomes our station
and ourselves, we ought to auspicate all our public proceedings on
America with the old warning of the church, _Sursum corda!_[5] We ought
to elevate our minds to the greatness of that trust to which the order of
Providence has called us.

By adverting to the dignity of this high calling, our ancestors have
turned a savage wilderness into a glorious empire, and have made the most
extensive and the only honorable conquests, not by destroying, but by
promoting the wealth, the number, the happiness, of the human race.


“WAR IS ACTUALLY BEGUN”

BY PATRICK HENRY

(Mr. Henry in the Convention of Delegates of Virginia, March 23, 1775,
urges that the colony be immediately put in a state of defense.)

This, sir, is no time for ceremony. The question before the house is
one of awful moment to this country. For my own part, I consider it as
nothing less than a question of freedom or slavery; and in proportion to
the magnitude of the subject ought to be the freedom of the debate. It
is only in this way that we can hope to arrive at truth, and fulfill the
great responsibility which we hold to God and our country. Should I keep
back my opinions at this time through fear of giving offense, I should
consider myself as guilty of treason towards my country and of an act
of disloyalty towards the majesty of Heaven, which I revere above all
earthly kings.

Mr. President, it is natural to man to indulge in the illusions of hope.
We are apt to shut our eyes against a painful truth, and listen to the
song of that siren till she transforms us into beasts. Is this the part
of wise men engaged in a great and arduous struggle for liberty? Are we
disposed to be of the number of those who, having eyes, see not, and
having ears, hear not, the things which so nearly concern their temporal
salvation? For my part, whatever anguish of spirit it may cost, I am
willing to know the whole truth; to know the worst, and to provide for it.

I have but one lamp by which my feet are guided, and that is the lamp of
experience. I know of no way of judging of the future but by the past.
And, judging by the past, I wish to know what there has been in the
conduct of the British ministry for the last ten years to justify those
hopes with which gentlemen have been pleased to solace themselves and the
house? Is it that insidious smile with which our petition has been lately
received? Trust it not, sir; it will prove a snare to your feet. Suffer
not yourselves to be betrayed with a kiss. Ask yourself how this gracious
reception of our petition comports with those warlike preparations which
cover our waters and darken our land.

Are fleets and armies necessary to a work of love and reconciliation?
Have we shown ourselves so unwilling to be reconciled that force must be
called in to win back our love? Let us not deceive ourselves, sir. These
are the implements of war and subjugation, the last arguments to which
kings resort. I ask, sir, what means this martial array, if its purpose
be not to force us to submission? Can the gentlemen assign any other
possible motive for it? Has Great Britain any enemy in this quarter of
the world, to call for all this accumulation of navies and armies? No,
sir, she has none. They are meant for us; they can be meant for no other.
They are sent over to bind and rivet upon us those chains which the
British ministry have been so long forging.

And what have we to oppose them. Shall we try argument? Sir, we have been
trying that for the last ten years. Have we anything new to offer upon
the subject? Nothing. We have held the subject up in every light of which
it is capable, but it has been all in vain. Shall we resort to entreaty
and humble supplication? What terms shall we find which have not been
already exhausted? Let us not, I beseech you, sir, deceive ourselves
longer.

Sir, we have done everything that could be done to avert the storm that
is now coming on. We have petitioned, we have remonstrated, we have
supplicated, we have prostrated ourselves before the throne, and have
implored its interposition to arrest the tyrannical hands of the ministry
and Parliament. Our petitions have been slighted; our remonstrances have
produced additional violence and insult; our supplications have been
disregarded, and we have been spurned with contempt from the foot of the
throne.

In vain, after these things, may we indulge the fond hope of peace and
reconciliation. There is no longer any room for hope. If we wish to be
free, if we mean to preserve inviolate those inestimable privileges for
which we have been so long contending, if we mean not basely to abandon
the noble struggle in which we have been so long engaged, and which we
have pledged ourselves never to abandon until the glorious object of
our contest shall be obtained, we must fight! I repeat it, sir, we must
fight! An appeal to arms and to the God of hosts is all that is left
us!...

They tell us, sir, that we are weak—unable to cope with so formidable
an adversary. But when shall we be stronger? Will it be the next week,
or the next year? Will it be when we are totally disarmed, and when a
British guard shall be stationed in every house? Shall we gather strength
by irresolution and inaction? Shall we acquire the means of effectual
resistance by lying supinely on our backs, and hugging the delusive
phantom of hope, until our enemies shall have bound us hand and foot?
Sir, we are not weak if we make a proper use of those means which the God
of nature hath placed in our power.

Three millions of people armed in the holy cause of liberty, and in such
a country as that which we possess, are invincible by any force which our
enemy can send against us. Besides, sir, we shall not fight our battles
alone. There is a just God who presides over the destinies of nations,
and who will raise up friends to fight our battles for us.

The battle, sir, is not to the strong alone; it is to the vigilant, the
active, the brave. Besides, sir, we have no election. If we were base
enough to desire it, it is now too late to retire from the contest. There
is no retreat but in submission and slavery! Our chains are forged. Their
clanking may be heard on the plains of Boston! The war is inevitable, and
let it come! I repeat it, sir, let it come!

It is in vain, sir, to extenuate the matter. Gentlemen may cry peace,
peace, but there is no peace. The war has actually begun! The next
gale that sweeps from the north will bring to our ears the clash of
resounding arms! Our brethren are already in the field! Why stand we here
idle? What is it that the gentlemen wish? What would they have? Is life
so dear, or peace so sweet, as to be purchased at the price of chains and
slavery? Forbid it, Almighty God! I know not what course others may take,
but as for me, _give me liberty or give me death!_


EMANCIPATION FROM BRITISH DEPENDENCE

BY PHILIP FRENEAU

(_The following note in explanation of proper names, etc., in this poem
is copied from Duyckinck’s edition of Freneau._)

Note.—Sir James Wallace, Admiral Graves, and Captain Montague, were
British naval officers, employed on our coast. The _Viper_ and _Rose_
were vessels in the service. Lord Dunmore, the last royal governor of
Virginia, had recently in April, 1775, removed the public stores from
Williamsburg, and, in conjunction with a party of adherents, supported by
the naval force on the station, was making war on the province. William
Tryon, the last Royal governor of New York, informed of a resolution
of the Continental Congress: “That it be recommended to the several
provincial assemblies in conventions and councils, or committees of
safety, to arrest and secure every person in their respective colonies
whose going at large may, in their opinion, endanger the safety of the
colony or the liberties of America,” discerning the signs of the times,
took refuge on board the Halifax packet in the harbor, and left the city
in the middle of October, 1775.

        _Libera nos, Domine_—Deliver us, O Lord,
        Not only from British dependence, but also,
    From a junto that labor for absolute power,
    Whose schemes disappointed have made them look sour;
    From the lords of the council, who fight against freedom
    Who still follow on where delusion shall lead ’em.

    From groups at St. James’s who slight our Petitions,
    And fools that are waiting for further submissions;
    From a nation whose manners are rough and abrupt,
    From scoundrels and rascals whom gold can corrupt.

    From pirates sent out by command of the king
    To murder and plunder, but never to swing;
    From Wallace, and Graves, and _Vipers_ and _Roses_,
    Whom, if Heaven pleases, we’ll give bloody noses.

    From the valiant Dunmore, with his crew of banditti
    Who plunder Virginians at Williamsburg city,
    From hot-headed Montague, mighty to swear,
    The little fat man with his pretty white hair.

    From bishops in Britain, who butchers are grown,
    From slaves that would die for a smile from the throne,
    From assemblies that vote against Congress’ proceedings,
    (Who now see the fruit of their stupid misleadings).

    From Tryon, the mighty, who flies from our city,
    And swelled with importance, disdains the committee;
    (But since he is pleased to proclaim us his foes,
    What the devil care we where the devil he goes.)

    From the caitiff, Lord North, who could bind us in chains,
    From our noble King Log, with his toothful of brains,
    Who dreams, and is certain (when taking a nap)
    He has conquered our lands as they lay on his map.

    From a kingdom that bullies, and hectors, and swears,
    I send up to Heaven my wishes and prayers
    That we, disunited, may freemen be still,
    And Britain go on—to be damn’d if she will.




IV

THE DECLARATION


THE ORIGIN OF THE DECLARATION[6]

BY SYDNEY GEORGE FISHER

Besides the semi-independent character of their political governments,
there were other circumstances which tended to inspire a large part of
the colonists with a strong passion for independence, and led them to
resist with unusual energy the remodeling plans which England began in
1764.

The sturdy influences of Protestantism and American life had, however,
not so great an effect on that large body of people called loyalists,
whose numbers have been variously estimated at from one-third to over
half the population. They remained loyal to England, and were so far from
being inspired with a love of independence that they utterly detested the
whole patriot cause and sacrificed their property and lives in the effort
to stamp out its principles and put in their place the British empire
method of alien control as the best form of government for America.

Patriot parties have existed in other countries without the aid of
the particular influences which Burke described. The love of national
independence is, in fact, the most difficult passion to eradicate, as the
Irish, the Poles, and other broken nationalities bear witness. The desire
for independence is natural to all vigorous communities, is generally
regarded as more manlike and honorable than dependence, and usually
springs up spontaneously whether in Holland, Switzerland or America, in
spite of the commercial and conservative influences of loyalism. But,
nevertheless, the influences mentioned by Burke, and several that he did
not mention, had no doubt considerable effect in creating the patriot
party in America and inspiring it with enthusiasm and energy.

The self-confidence aroused in the colonists by their success in subduing
the wilderness, felling the vast forests, hunting the wild game and still
wilder red men, has often been given as a cause of the Revolution and the
American love of independence. Eloquence is easily tempted to enlarge
upon such causes, and to describe in romantic language the hunter and the
woodsman, the farmer in the fresh soil of primeval forests, the fishermen
of the Grand Banks, the merchants and sailors who traded with the whole
world in defiance of the British navigation laws, and the crews of the
whaling ships that pursued their dangerous game from the equator to the
poles.

The American lawyers, according to Burke, were an important cause of the
Revolution. They were very numerous in the colonies; law and theories of
government were much read and studied, and the people were trained to
discussion of political rights as well as of religious doctrine. Burke
described in picturesque detail how, in the South, the ruling class
lived scattered and remote from one another, maintaining themselves
in self-reliant authority on plantations with hundreds of slaves;
and slavery, he said, inspired in the white master a fierce love of
independence for himself and an undying dread of any form of the bondage
which his love of gain had inflicted on a weaker race.

The geographical position of the thirteen contiguous colonies, so
situated that they could easily unite and act together, and having a
population that was increasing so rapidly that it seemed likely in a few
years to exceed the population of England, was possibly a more effective
cause of the Revolution than any of those that have been named. The
consciousness of possessing such a vast fertile continent, which within a
few generations would support more than double the population of little
England, furnished a profound encouragement for theories of independence.
People in England were well aware of this feeling in the colonies, and
Joshua Gee, a popular writer on political economy in 1738, tried to
quiet their fears. Some, he said, were objecting that “if we encourage
the Plantations they will grow rich and set up for themselves and cast
off the English government”; and he went on to show that this fear was
groundless because the colonists nearly all lived on the navigable rivers
and bays of America, where the British navy could easily reach and subdue
them. He also attempted to argue away the advantage of the contiguous
situation of the colonies and described them as split up into a dozen
or more separate provinces, each with its own governor; and it was
inconceivable, he said, that such diverse communities would be able to
unite against England.

English statesmen, however, saw the danger of union among the colonies
long before the outbreak of the Revolution; and they shrewdly rejected
the plan of union of the Albany conference of 1754; and in the Revolution
itself a large part of England’s diplomatic and military efforts were
directed towards breaking up the easy communication among the colonies.

In modern times England’s colonies have been widely separated from one
another. There has been no large and rapidly increasing white population
on contiguous territory with ability for union. The dark-skinned
population of India is enormous in numbers, but incapable of the united
action of the Americans of 1776, and India is not considered a colony but
a territory continuously held by overwhelming military force. Instead of
a colonial population which threatened in a short time to outnumber her
own people, England’s power and population have, in modern times, grown
far beyond any power or population in her well-scattered white colonies.

The colonists at the time of the Revolution have often been described
as speaking of England as home and regarding the mother-country with no
little degree of affection; and while there is no doubt some truth in
this, especially as regards the people who were loyalists, yet a very
large proportion of the colonists had become totally differentiated from
the people of England. This was the inevitable result of having lived for
over a hundred years in the American environment. They were no longer
Englishmen. They had become completely Americanized. Certain classes
kept up their connection with England, and many of the rich planters of
the South sent their sons to England to be educated. But a very large
part of the colonists, especially in the older settled provinces, like
Massachusetts and Virginia, had forgotten England and were another people.

Instead of speaking, as novelists often describe them, in a formal
archaic way, using quaint phrases of old English life, the colonists
spoke with mannerisms and colloquial slang which were peculiarly
American. These peculiarities were ridiculed by Englishmen of the time
and formed part of Grant’s famous speech in Parliament, the burden
of which appears to have been that the colonists had become entirely
different from English people, and Grant is said to have given imitations
of what he considered their strange speech and manners. Mrs. Knight, in
her _Journal of Travel from Boston to New York_, had, many years before
the Revolution, given specimens of this difference; and the language of
the New Englanders which she describes was certainly not like anything in
England.

“Law for me—what in the world brings you here at this time of night? I
never see a woman on the Rode so Dreadful late in all the days of my
versall life. Who are you? Where are you going?”—Mrs. Knight’s _Journal_,
p. 23.

In 1775 some one wrote a set of humorous verses, said to have been the
original Yankee Doodle song, to illustrate the colloquial Americanism of
the time. “Slapping” was used for “large,” as in the phrase “a slapping
stallion.” “Nation” was used for “a great deal,” as in such a phrase as
“only a nation louder.” “Tarnal” was used for “very.” “I see” was used
for “I saw,” “I come” for “I came,” and “I hooked it off” in place of “I
went away.”

Not only did the patriots feel themselves to be quite different from
Englishmen, but they had a consciousness of ability and power, the result
of having governed themselves so long in their towns, counties, and
provinces, and of having carried on a commerce of their own in defiance
of the English navigation laws. They felt that they, not Englishmen, had
created the country; and they had a resolute intention to develop its
future greatness in their own way without the advice of aliens across
three thousand miles of ocean.

This high confidence, which was a conspicuous motive in the patriot
party, was always ridiculed by the loyalists as mere bumptiousness and
conceit. It was difficult for a loyalist to understand how any one could
seriously put himself in opposition to the British empire or want any
form of government except the British constitution. But the patriot
estimate of their own ability was by no means an exaggeration. They
could be overcome, of course, as the Boer republics and other peoples
have been overcome, by the superior numbers or wealth of Great Britain.
But the history of the Revolution disclosed qualities in which the
Americans notoriously excelled Europeans as well as the Anglo-Saxon stock
in England from which they were derived. They were of keener practical
intelligence, more promptness in action, more untiring energy, more
originality in enterprise, better courage and endurance, and more natural
military skill among the rank and file. These distinctively American
qualities, we now call them, seem to have been much more in evidence
among the patriot party than among the loyalists.

Every circumstance of their past and every consideration of their
present convinced the patriot of the infinite pleasure and value of home
rule and they had codified their opinions into a political philosophy
which not only justified their semi-independence and disregard of
acts of Parliament, but would also justify them in breaking off from
England, at the first opportunity and becoming absolutely independent.
They had gathered this philosophy from the works of certain European
writers—Grotius, Puffendorf, Locke, Burlamaqui, Beccaria, Montesquieu,
and others—who had applied to politics and government the doctrines
of religious liberty and the right of private judgment which had been
developed by the Reformation. Being such extreme Protestants, and having
carried so far the religious ideas of the Reformation, the colonists
naturally accepted in their fullest meaning the political principles
of the Reformation. If we are looking for profound influences in the
Revolution, it would be difficult to find any that were stronger than two
of the writers just mentioned, Locke and Burlamaqui, whose books had a
vast effect in the break-up of the British empire which we are about to
record.

Beginning with Grotius, who was born in 1582, and ending with
Montesquieu, who died in 1755, the writers mentioned covered a period
of about two hundred years of political investigation, thought and
experience. In fact, they covered the period since the Reformation. They
represented the effect of the Reformation on political thought. They
represented also all those nations whose opinions on such subjects were
worth anything. Grotius was a Dutchman, Puffendorf a German, Locke an
Englishman, Burlamaqui an Italian Swiss, and Montesquieu a Frenchman.

Hooker, who lived from 1553 to 1600, and whom Locke cites so freely,
might be included in the number, and that would make the period quite
two hundred years. Hooker, in his “Ecclesiastical Polity,” declared very
emphatically that governments could not be legitimate unless they rested
on the consent of the governed; and this principle forms the foundation
of Locke’s famous essays.

There were, of course, other minor writers; and the colonists relied
upon them all; but seldom troubled themselves to read the works of the
earlier ones, or to read Hutchinson, Clarke and other followers of that
school, because Locke, Burlamaqui, and Beccaria had summarized them
all and brought them down to date. To this day any one going to the
Philadelphia Library, and asking for No. 77, can take in his hands the
identical, well-worn volume of Burlamaqui which delegates to the Congress
and many an unsettled Philadelphian read with earnest, anxious minds. It
was among the first books that the library had obtained; and perhaps the
most important and effective book it has ever owned.

The rebellious colonists also read Locke’s “Two Treatises on Government”
with much profit and satisfaction to themselves. Locke was an extreme
Whig, an English revolutionist of the school of 1688. Before that great
event, he had been unendurable to the royalists, who were in power, and
had been obliged to spend a large part of his time on the continent.
In the preface of his “Two Treatises,” he says that they will show how
entirely legitimate is the title of William III to the throne, because
it is established on the consent of the people. That is the burden of
his whole argument—the consent of the people as the only true foundation
of government. That principle sank so deep into the minds of the patriot
colonists that it was the foundation of all their political thought, and
became an essentially American idea.

Beccaria, who, like Burlamaqui, was an Italian, also exercised great
influence on the colonists. His famous book, “Crimes and Punishments,”
was also a short, concise, but very eloquent volume. It caused a great
stir in the world. The translation circulated in America had added to it
a characteristic commentary by Voltaire. Beccaria, though not writing
directly on the subject of liberty, necessarily included that subject,
because he dealt with the administration of the criminal law. His plea
for more humane and just punishments, and for punishments more in
proportion to the offense, found a ready sympathy among the Americans,
who had already revolted in disgust from the brutality and extravagant
cruelty of the English criminal code.

But Beccaria also stated most beautifully and clearly the essential
principles of liberty. His foundation doctrine, that “every act of
authority of one man over another for which there is not absolute
necessity is tyrannical,” made a most profound impression in America.
He laid down also the principle that “in every human society there is
an effort continually tending to confer on one part the highest power
and happiness, and to reduce the other to the extreme of weakness and
misery.” That sentence became the life-long guide of many Americans. It
became a constituent part of the minds of Jefferson and Hamilton. It can
be seen as the foundation, the connecting strand, running all through
the essays of the _Federalist_. It was the inspiration of the “checks
and balances” in the national Constitution. It can be traced in American
thought and legislation down to the present time.

Burlamaqui’s book, devoted exclusively to the subject of liberty and
independence, is still one of the best expositions of the true doctrines
of natural law, or the rights of man. At the time of the Revolution these
rights of man were often spoken of as our rights as men, which is a very
descriptive phrase, because the essence of those rights is political
manhood, honorable self-reliance as opposed to degenerate dependence.

Burlamaqui belonged to a Protestant family that had once lived at
Lucca, Italy; but had been compelled, like the family of Turretini, and
many others, to take refuge in Switzerland. He became a professor at
Geneva, which gave him the reputation of a learned man. He also became
a counselor of state and was noted for his practical sagacity. He had
intended to write a great work in many volumes on the subject to which
he had devoted so much of his life, “The Principles of Natural Law,” as
it was then called. Ill health preventing such a huge task, he prepared
a single volume, which he said was only for beginners and students,
because it dealt with the bare elements of the science in the simplest
and plainest language.

This little book was translated into English in 1748, and contained
only three hundred pages; but in that small space of large, clear type,
Burlamaqui compressed everything that the patriot colonists wanted to
know. He was remarkably clear and concise, and gave the Americans the
qualities of the Italian mind at its best. He aroused them by his modern
glowing thought and his enthusiasm for progress and liberty. His handy
little volume was vastly more effective and far-reaching than would have
been the blunderbuss he had intended to load to the muzzle.

If we examine the volumes of Burlamaqui’s predecessors, Grotius,
Puffendorf, and the others, we find their statements about natural law
and our rights as men rather brief, vague, and general, as is usual with
the old writers on any science. Burlamaqui brought them down to date,
developed their principles, and swept in the results of all the thought
and criticism since their day.

The term natural law, which all these writers used, has long since gone
out of fashion. They used it because, inspired by the Reformation, they
were struggling to get away from the arbitrary system, the artificial
scholasticism, the despotism of the middle ages. They were seeking to
obtain for law and government a foundation which should grow out of the
nature of things, the common facts of life that everybody understood.
They sought a system that, being natural, would become established and
eternal like nature; a system that would displace that thing of the
middle ages which they detested, and called “arbitrary institution.”

Let us, they said, contemplate for a time man as he is in himself, the
natural man, his wants and requirements.

“The only way,” said Burlamaqui, “to attain to the knowledge of that
natural law is to consider attentively the nature and constitution of
man, the relations he has to the beings that surround him, and the states
from thence resulting. In fact, the very term of natural law and the
notion we have given of it, show that the principles of this science must
be taken from the very nature and constitution of man.”

Men naturally, he said, draw together to form societies for mutual
protection and advantage. Their natural state is a state of union and
society, and these societies are merely for the common advantage of all
of the members.

This was certainly a very simple proposition, but it had required
centuries to bring men’s minds back to it; and it was not altogether
safe to put forth because it implied that each community existed for
the benefit of itself, for the benefit of its members, and not for the
benefit of a prince or another nation, or for the church, or for an
empire.

It was a principle quickly seized upon by the Americans as soon as their
difficulties began in 1764. In their early debates and discussions we
hear a great deal about a “state of nature,” which at first seems rather
meaningless to us. But it was merely their attempt to apply to themselves
the fundamental principles of the Reformation. Were the colonies by the
exactions and remodeling of the mother-country thrown into that “state
of nature,” where they could reorganize society afresh, on the basis
of their own advantage? How much severity or how much oppression or
dissatisfaction would bring about this state of nature? Was there any
positive rule by which you could decide? Patrick Henry, who was always
very eloquent on the subject, declared that the boundary had been passed;
that the colonies were in a state of nature.

Any one who is at all familiar with the trend of thought for the last
hundred years can readily see how closely this idea of going back to
natural causes and first conceptions for the discovery of political
principles is allied to every kind of modern progress; to the modern
study of natural history, the study of the plants and animals in their
natural environment, instead of by preconceived scholastic theories; the
study of the human body by dissection instead of by supposition; the
study of heat, light, electricity, the soil, the rocks, the ocean, the
stars by actual observation, without regard to what the Scriptures and
learned commentators had to say.

A large part of the American colonists were very far advanced in all the
ideas of the Reformation. Burlamaqui’s book, applying to politics and
government, these free and wonderful principles, came to a large number
of them as the most soul-stirring and mind-arousing message they had ever
heard. It has all become trite enough to us; but to them it was fresh and
marvelous. Their imaginations seized on it with the indomitable energy
and passion which the climate inspired, and some who breathed the air of
Virginia and Massachusetts were on fire with enthusiasm.

“This state of nature,” argued Burlamaqui, “is not the work of man, but
established by divine institution.”

“Natural society is a state of equality and liberty; a state in which all
men enjoy the same prerogatives, and an entire independence on any other
power but God. For every man is naturally master of himself, and equal to
his fellow-creatures so long as he does not subject himself to another
person’s authority by a particular convention.”

Here we find coupled with liberty that word equality which played such a
tremendous part in history for the succeeding hundred years. And we must
bear in mind that what the people of that time meant by it was political
equality, equality of rights, equality before the law and the government;
and not equality of ability, talents, fortunes, or gifts, as some have
fancied.

Burlamaqui not only found liberty, independence, and equality growing
out of nature itself; but he argued that all this was part of the divine
plan, the great order of nature and the universe. Indeed, that was what
he and his Reformation predecessors had set out to discover, to unravel
the system of humanity, to see if there really was a system that could
be gathered from the actual plain facts; and to see also if there was a
unity and completeness in this system.

“The human understanding,” he says, “is naturally right, and has within
itself a strength sufficient to arrive at the knowledge of truth, and
to distinguish it from error.” That he announces as the fundamental
principle of his book, “the hinge whereon the whole system of humanity
turns,” and it was simply his way of restating the great doctrine of the
Reformation, the right of private judgment.

But he goes on to enlarge on it in a way particularly pleasing to
the patriot colonists, for he says we have this power to decide for
ourselves, “especially in things wherein our respective duties are
concerned.”

“Yes,” said the colonists, “we have often thought that we were the best
judges of all our own affairs.”

“Those who feel,” said Franklin, in his examination before Parliament,
“can best judge.”

The daring Burlamaqui went on to show that liberty instead of being, as
some supposed, a privilege to be graciously accorded, was in reality a
universal right, inherent in the nature of things.

Then appears that idea common to the great leaders of thought in that
age, that man’s true purpose in the world is the pursuit of happiness.
To this pursuit, they said, every human being has a complete right. It
was part of liberty; a necessary consequence of liberty. This principle
of the right to pursue happiness, which is merely another way of stating
the right of self-development, has played as great a part in subsequent
history as equality. It is one of the foundation principles of the
Declaration of Independence. It is given there as the ground-work of
the right of revolution, the right of a people to throw off or destroy
a power which interferes with this great pursuit, “and to institute a
new government, laying its foundation on such principles, and organizing
its power in such form as to them shall seem most likely to effect their
safety and happiness.”

It has been interpreted in all sorts of ways—as the right to improve
your condition, to develop your talents, to grow rich, or to rise into
the class of society above you. It is now in its broadest meaning so
axiomatic in this country that Americans can hardly realize that it was
ever disputed.

But it was, and still is, disputed in England and on the continent. Even
so liberal an Englishman as Kingsley resented with indignation the charge
that he favored the aspiration of the lower classes to change their
condition. Once a cobbler, remain a cobbler, and be content to be a good
cobbler. In other words, the righteousness which he so loudly professed
was intended to exalt certain fortunate individuals, and not to advance
society.

This desire and pursuit of happiness being part of nature, or part of the
system of Providence, and as essential to every man and as inseparable
from him as his reason, it should be freely allowed him, and not
repressed. This, Burlamaqui declares, is a great principle, “the key of
the human system,” opening to vast consequences for the world.

The consequences have certainly been vaster than he dreamed of. Millions
of people now live their daily life in the sunshine of this doctrine.
Millions have fled to us from Europe to seek its protection. Not only
the whole American system of laws, but whole philosophies and codes
of conduct have grown up under it. The abolitionists appealed to it,
and freed six millions of slaves. The transcendental philosophy of New
England, that extreme and beautiful attempt to develop conscience,
nobility, and character from within; that call of the great writers like
Lowell to every humble individual to stand by his own personality, fear
it not, advance it by its own lines; even our education, the elective
system of our colleges—all these things have followed under that “pursuit
of happiness,” which the patriot colonists seized upon so gladly in 1765
and enshrined in their Declaration of Independence in 1776.

They found in the principles of natural law how government, civil
society, or “sovereignty,” as those writers were apt to call it, was
to be built up and regulated. Civil government did not destroy natural
rights and the pursuit of happiness. On the contrary, it was intended to
give those rights greater security and a fresh force and efficiency. That
was the purpose men had in coming together to form a civil society for
the benefit of all; that was the reason, as Burlamaqui put it, that “the
sovereign became the depositary, as it were, of the will and strength of
each individual.”

This seemed very satisfactory to some of the colonists. You choose
your sovereign, your government, for yourself, and make it your mere
depositary or agent. Then as to the nature of the government, the right
to govern, they were very much pleased to find that the only right there
was of this sort was the right of each community to govern itself.
Government by outside power was absolutely indefensible, because the
notion that there was a divine right in one set of people to rule over
others was exploded nonsense, and the assertion that mere might or
superior power necessarily gave such right was equally indefensible.
There remained only one plausible reason, and that was that superior
excellence, wisdom, or ability might possibly give such right.

As to this “superior excellence” theory, if you admitted it you denied
man’s inherent right to liberty, equality and the pursuit of happiness;
you denied his moral accountability and responsibility; you crippled his
independent development, his self-development, his individual action; in
a word, you destroyed the whole natural system.

Because a man is inferior to another is no reason why he should surrender
his liberty, his accountability, his chance for self-development, to
the superior. We do not surrender our property to the next man who is
richer or an abler business manager. Our inferiority does not give him a
right over us. On the contrary, the inferiority of the inferior man is
an additional reason why he should cling to all those rights of nature
which have been given to him, that he may have wherewithal to raise
himself, and be alone accountable for himself. Or, as Burlamaqui briefly
summarized it:

“The knowledge I have of the excellency of a superior does not alone
afford me a motive sufficient to subject myself to him, and to induce me
to abandon my own will in order to take his for my rule; ... and without
any reproach of conscience I may sincerely judge that the intelligent
principle within me is sufficient to direct my conduct.”

Only the people, Burlamaqui explained, have inherent inalienable rights;
and they alone can confer the privilege of commanding. It had been
supposed that the sovereign alone had rights, and the people only
privileges. But here were Burlamaqui, Puffendorf, Montesquieu, Locke, and
fully half the American colonists, undertaking to reverse this order and
announcing that the people alone had rights, and the sovereign merely
privileges.

These principles the Americans afterwards translated in their documents
by the phrase, “a just government exists only by consent of the
governed.” All men being born politically equal, the colonies, as
Dickinson and Hamilton explained, are equally with Great Britain entitled
to happiness, equally entitled to govern themselves, equally entitled to
freedom and independence.

It is curious to see the cautious way in which some of the colonists
applied these doctrines by mixing them up with loyalty arguments. This is
very noticeable in the pamphlets written by Alexander Hamilton. He gives
the stock arguments for redress of grievances, freedom from internal
taxation, government by the king alone, and will not admit that he is
anything but a loyal subject. At the same time there runs through all
he says an undercurrent of strong rebellion which leads to his ultimate
object. “The power,” he says, “which one society bestows upon any man or
body of men can never extend beyond its own limits.” This he lays down as
a universal truth, independently of charters and the wonderful British
Constitution. It applied to the whole world. Parliament was elected by
the people of England, therefore it had no authority outside of the
British isle. That British isle and America were separate societies.

“Nature,” said Hamilton, “has distributed an equality of rights to every
man.” How then, he asked, can the English people have any rights over
life, liberty, or property in America? They can have authority only among
themselves in England. We are separated from Great Britain, Hamilton
argued, not only by the ocean, by geography, but because we have no part
or share in governing her. Therefore, as we have no share in governing
her, she, by the law of nature, can have no share in governing us; she is
a separate society.

The British, he said, were attempting to involve in the idea of a colony
the idea of political slavery, and against that a man must fight with
his life. To be controlled by the superior wisdom of another nation was
ridiculous, unworthy of the consideration of manhood; and at this point
he used that sentence which has so often been quoted—“Deplorable is
the condition of that people who have nothing else than the wisdom and
justice of another to depend upon.”

Charters and documents, he declared, must yield to natural laws and our
rights as men.

“The sacred rights of man are not to be rummaged for among old parchments
or musty records. They are written as with a sunbeam in the whole volume
of human nature by the hand of divinity itself and can never be erased by
mortal power.”

The Declaration of Independence was an epitome of these doctrines of
natural law applied to the colonies. The Declaration of Independence
originated in these doctrines, and not in the mind of Jefferson, as so
many people have absurdly supposed. In order to see how directly the
Declaration was an outcome of these teachings we have only to read its
opening paragraphs:

“When, in the course of human events, it becomes necessary for one
people to dissolve the political bands which have connected them with
another, and to assume, among the powers of the earth, the separate and
equal station to which the laws of nature and of nature’s God entitle
them, a decent respect to the opinions of mankind requires that they
should declare the causes which impel them to the separation.

“We hold these truths to be self-evident, that all men are created equal;
that they are endowed by their Creator with certain inalienable rights;
that among these are life, liberty and the pursuit of happiness. That,
to secure these rights, governments are instituted among men, deriving
their just powers from the consent of the governed; that, whenever any
form of government becomes destructive of these ends, it is the right of
the people to alter or to abolish it, and to institute a new government,
laying its foundation on such principles, and organizing its powers
in such form as to them shall seem most likely to effect their safety
and happiness. Prudence, indeed, will dictate that governments long
established should not be changed for light and transient causes; and,
accordingly, all experience hath shown, that mankind are more disposed
to suffer, while evils are sufferable, than to right themselves by
abolishing the forms to which they are accustomed.”

By understanding the writings of Burlamaqui, Locke, and Beccaria, which
the colonists were studying so intently, we know the origin of the
Declaration, and need not flounder in the dark, as so many have done,
wondering where it came from, or how it was that Jefferson could have
invented it. Being unwilling to take the trouble of examining carefully
the influences which preceded the Declaration, historical students are
sometimes surprised to find a document like the Virginia Bill of Rights
or the supposed Mecklenburg resolutions, issued before the Declaration
and yet containing the same principles. They instantly jump to the
conclusion that here is the real origin and author of the Declaration,
and from this Jefferson stole his ideas.

Jefferson merely drafted the Declaration. Neither he, Adams, Franklin,
Sherman, nor Livingston, who composed the committee which was responsible
for it, ever claimed any originality for its principles. They were merely
stating principles which were already familiar to the people, which had
been debated over and over again in Congress; which were so familiar
in fact, that they stated them rather carelessly and took too much for
granted. It would have been better, instead of saying, “all men are
created equal,” to have said that all men are created politically equal,
which was what they meant, and what every one at that time understood.
By leaving out the word “politically” they gave an opportunity to a
generation unfamiliar with the doctrines of natural law to suppose
that they meant that all men are created, or should be made, equal in
conditions, opportunities or talents.


THE DECLARATION OF INDEPENDENCE

BY JOHN D. LONG

Recall the quaint and homely city of Philadelphia, the gloom that hung
over it from the terrible responsibility of the step there taken, the
modest hall still standing and baptized as the Cradle of Liberty. On
its tower swung the bell which yet survives with its legend,—“Proclaim
liberty throughout all the world to all the inhabitants thereof.” That
day it rang out a proclamation of liberty that will indeed echo round the
world and in the ears of all the inhabitants thereof long after the bell
itself shall have crumbled into dust.

Hancock is in the president’s chair; before him sit the half-hundred
delegates who at that time represent America. Among the names it is
remarkable how many there are that have since been famous in our annals.
The committee appointed to draft the declarations are Jefferson, youngest
and tallest; John Adams; Sherman, shoemaker; Franklin, printer; and
Robert R. Livingston. If the patriot, Samuel Adams, at the sunrise of
Lexington could say,—“Oh, what a glorious morning!” how well might he
have renewed in the more brilliant noontime of July 4, 1776, the same
prophetic words!

There is nothing in the prophecies of old more striking and impressive
than the words of John Adams, who declared the event would be
celebrated by succeeding generations as a great anniversary festival
and commemorated as a day of deliverance, from one end of the continent
to the other; that through all the gloom he could see the light; that
the end was worth all the means and that posterity would triumph in the
transaction. I am not of those who overrate the past. I know that the men
of 1776 had the common weaknesses and shortcomings of humanity. I read
the Declaration of Independence with no feeling of awe; and yet if I were
called upon to select from the history of the world any crisis grander,
loftier, purer, more heroic, I should not know where to turn.

It seems simple enough to-day, but it was something else in that day. The
men who signed the Declaration knew not but they were signing warrants
for their own ignominious execution on the gibbet. The bloody victims of
the Jacobite rebellions of 1715 and 1745 were still a warning to rebels;
and the gory holocaust of Culloden was fresh in the memory. But it was
not only the personal risk; it was risking the homes, the commerce, the
lives, the property, the honor, the future destiny of three million
innocent people,—men, women, and children. It was defying on behalf of a
straggling chain of colonies clinging to the sea-board, the most imperial
power of the world. It was, more than all, like Columbus sailing into
awful uncertainty of untried space, casting off from an established
and familiar form of government and politics, drifting away to unknown
methods, and upon the dangerous and yawning chaos of democratic
institutions, flying from ills they had to those they knew not of, and
perhaps laying the way for a miserable and bloody catastrophe in anarchy
and riot.

There are times when ordinary men are borne by the tide of an occasion to
crests of grandeur in conduct and action. Such a time, such an occasion,
was that of the Declaration. While the signers were picked men, none the
less true is it that their extraordinary fame is due not more to their
merits than to the crisis at which they were at the helm and to the
great popular instinct which they obeyed and expressed. And why do we
commemorate with such veneration and display this special epoch and event
in our history? Why do we repeat the words our fathers spoke or wrote?
Why cherish their names, when our civilization is better than theirs and
when we have reached in science, art, education, religion, politics, in
every phase of human development, even in morals, a higher level?

It is because we recognize that in their beginnings the eternal elements
of truth and right and justice were conspicuous. To those eternal
verities we pay our tribute, and not to their surroundings, except so far
as we let the form stand for the spirit, the man for the idea, the event
for the purpose. And it is also because we can do no better work than to
perpetuate virtue in the citizen by keeping always fresh in the popular
mind the great heroic deeds and times of our history. The valuable thing
in the past is not the man or the events,—which are both always ordinary
and which under the enchantment of distance and the pride of descent, we
love to surround with exaggerated glory,—it is rather in the sentiment
for which the man and the event stand. The ideal is alone substantial and
alone survives.


THE SIGNING OF THE DECLARATION

BY GEORGE LIPPARD

It is a cloudless summer day; a clear blue sky arches and expands above a
quaint edifice rising among the giant trees in the center of a wide city.
That edifice is built of plain red brick, with heavy window frames, and a
massive hall door.

Such is the State House of Philadelphia in the year of our Lord 1776.

In yonder wooden steeple, which crowns the summit of that red brick
State House, stands an old man with snow-white hair and sunburnt face.
He is clad in humble attire, yet his eye gleams as it is fixed on the
ponderous outline of the bell suspended in the steeple there. By his
side, gazing into his sunburnt face in wonder, stands a flaxen-haired
boy, with laughing eyes of summer blue. The old man ponders for a moment
upon the strange words written upon the bell, then, gathering the boy in
his arms, he speaks: “Look here, my child; will you do this old man a
kindness? Then hasten down the stairs, and wait in the hall below till a
man gives you a message for me; when he gives you that word, run out into
the street and shout it up to me. Do you mind?” The boy sprang from the
old man’s arms and threaded his way down the dark stairs.

Many minutes passed. The old bell-keeper was alone. “Ah!” groaned the
old man, “he has forgotten me.” As the word was upon his lips a merry,
ringing laugh broke on his ear. And there, among the crowd on the
pavement, stood the blue-eyed boy, clapping his tiny hands while the
breeze blew his flaxen hair all about his face, and, swelling his little
chest, he raised himself on tiptoe, and shouted the single word, “Ring!”

Do you see that old man’s eye fire? Do you see that arm so suddenly bared
to the shoulder? Do you see that withered hand grasping the iron tongue
of the bell? That old man is young again. His veins are filling with
a new life. Backward and forward, with sturdy strokes, he swings the
tongue. The bell peals out; the crowds in the street hear it, and burst
forth in one long shout. Old Delaware hears it, and gives it back on the
cheers of her thousand sailors. The city hears it, and starts up from
desk and workshop, as if an earthquake had spoken.

Under that very bell, pealing out at noonday, in an old hall, fifty-six
traders, farmers and mechanics had assembled to break the shackles of the
world. The committee, who had been out all night, are about to appear. At
last the door opens, and they advance to the front. The parchment is laid
on the table. Shall it be signed or not? Then ensues a high and stormy
debate. Then the faint-hearted cringe in corners. Then Thomas Jefferson
speaks his few bold words, and John Adams pours out his whole soul.

Still there is a doubt; and that pale-faced man, rising in one corner,
speaks out something about “axes, scaffolds, and a gibbet.” A tall,
slender man rises, and his dark eye burns, while his words ring through
the halls: “Gibbets! They may stretch our necks on every scaffold in
the land. They may turn every rock into a gibbet, every tree into a
gallows; and yet the words written on that parchment can never die. They
may pour out our blood on a thousand altars, and yet, from every drop
that dyes the axe, or drips on the sawdust of the block, a new martyr to
freedom will spring into existence. What! are there shrinking hearts and
faltering voices here, when the very dead upon our battle-fields arise
and call upon us to sign that parchment, or be accursed forever?

“Sign! if the next moment the gibbet’s rope is around your neck. Sign! if
the next moment this hall rings with the echo of the falling axe. Sign!
by all your hopes in life or death, as husbands, as fathers, as men! Sign
your names to that parchment.

“Yes! were my soul trembling on the verge of eternity; were this voice
choking in the last struggle, I would still, with the last impulse of
that soul, with the last gasp of that voice, implore you to remember this
truth: God has given America to the free. Yes! as I sink down in the
gloomy shadow of the grave, with my last breath I would beg of you sign
that parchment.”


SUPPOSED SPEECH OF JOHN ADAMS

BY DANIEL WEBSTER

Sink or swim, live or die, survive or perish, I give my hand and my
heart to this vote. It is true, indeed, that in the beginning we aimed
not at independence. But there is a Divinity which shapes our ends. The
injustice of England has driven us to arms; and, blinded to her own
interest and our good she has obstinately persisted, till independence
is now within our grasp. We have but to reach forth to it, and it is
ours. Why, then, should we defer the Declaration? Is any man so weak as
now to hope for a reconciliation with England, which shall leave neither
safety to the country and its liberties, nor safety to his life and
his own honor? Are you not, sir, who sit in that chair, is not he, our
venerable colleague near you, are you not both already the proscribed
and predestined objects of punishment and of vengeance? Cut off from all
hope of royal clemency, what are you, what can you be, while the power of
England remains, but outlaws?

If we postpone independence, do we mean to carry on or give up the war?
Do we mean to submit to the measures of Parliament, Boston Port-Bill
and all? Do we mean to submit, and consent that we ourselves shall be
ground to powder, and our country and its rights, trodden down in the
dust? I know we do not mean to submit. We never shall submit. Do we mean
to violate that most solemn obligation ever entered into by men, that
plighting before God, of our sacred honor to Washington, when, putting
him forth to incur the dangers of war, as well as the political hazards
of the times, we promised to adhere to him, in every extremity, with our
fortunes and our lives? I know there is not a man here, who would not
rather see a general conflagration sweep over the land, or an earthquake
sink it, than one jot or tittle of that plighted faith fall to the
ground. For myself, having, twelve months ago, in this place, moved you,
that George Washington be appointed commander of the forces raised, or to
be raised, for defense of American liberty, may my right hand forget her
cunning, and my tongue cleave to the roof of my mouth, if I hesitate or
waver in the support I give him.

The war, then, must go on. We must fight it through. And if the war
must go on, why put off longer the Declaration of Independence? That
measure will strengthen us. It will give us character abroad. The nations
will then treat with us, which they never can do while we acknowledge
ourselves subjects in arms against our sovereign. Nay, I maintain that
England herself will sooner treat for peace with us on the footing of
independence than consent, by repealing her Acts, to acknowledge that her
whole conduct toward us has been a course of injustice and oppression.
Her pride will be less wounded by submitting to that course of things
which now predestinates our independence than by yielding the points in
controversy to her rebellious subjects. The former she would regard
as the result of fortune; the latter she would feel as her own deep
disgrace. Why, then, why, then, sir, do we not as soon as possible change
this from a civil to a national war? And, since we must fight it through,
why not put ourselves in a state to enjoy all the benefits of victory, if
we gain the victory?

If we fail, it can be no worse for us. But we shall not fail. The cause
will raise up armies; the cause will create navies. The people, the
people, if we are true to them, will carry us, and will carry themselves,
gloriously through the struggle. I care not how fickle other people
have been found. I know the people of these Colonies, and I know that
resistance to British aggression is deep and settled in their hearts, and
cannot be eradicated. Every Colony, indeed, has expressed its willingness
to follow, if we but take the lead.

Sir, the Declaration will inspire the people with increased courage.
Instead of a long and bloody war for restoration of privileges, for
redress of grievances, for chartered immunities, held under a British
King, set before them the gloriousness of entire independence, and it
will breathe into them anew the breath of life. Read this Declaration at
the head of the army; every sword will be drawn from its scabbard, and
the solemn vow uttered to maintain it, or to perish on the bed of honor.
Publish it from the pulpit; religion will approve it, and the love of
religious liberty will cling round it, resolved to stand with it, or fall
with it. Send it to the public halls; proclaim it there; let them hear it
who heard the first roar of the enemy’s cannon; let them see it who saw
their brothers and their sons fall on the field of Bunker Hill, and in
the streets of Lexington and Concord, and the very walls will cry out in
its support.

Sir, I know the uncertainty of human affairs, but I see, I see clearly,
through this day’s business. You and I, indeed, may rue it. We may not
live to the time when this Declaration shall be made good. We may die;
die, colonists; die, slaves; die, it may be, ignominiously and on the
scaffold. Be it so; be it so! If it be the pleasure of heaven that my
country shall require the poor offering of my life, the victim shall
be ready at the appointed hour of sacrifice, come when that hour may.
But, while I do live, let me have a country, or at least, the hope of a
country, and that a free country.

But whatever may be our fate, be assured, be assured that this
Declaration will stand. It may cost treasure, and it may cost blood,
but it will stand, and it will richly compensate for both. Through the
thick gloom of the present, I see the brightness of the future, as the
sun in heaven. We shall make this a glorious, an immortal day. When we
are in our graves, our children will honor it. They will celebrate it
with thanksgiving, with festivity, with bonfires and illuminations. On
its annual return, they will shed tears, copious, gushing tears, not of
subjection and slavery, not of agony and distress, but of exultation,
of gratitude and of joy. Sir, before God, I believe the hour is come.
My judgment approves this measure, and my whole heart is in it. All
that I have, and all that I am, and all that I hope, in this life, I am
now ready here to stake upon it. And I leave off as I began, that, live
or die, survive or perish, I am for the Declaration. It is my living
sentiment, and by the blessing of God it shall be my dying sentiment,
Independence _now_, and INDEPENDENCE FOREVER!


THE LIBERTY BELL

BY J. T. HEADLEY

On July fourth, 1776, the representatives of the American people gathered
at the State House in Philadelphia to take final action upon the
Declaration of Independence, which had been under discussion for three
days.

It was soon known throughout the city; and in the morning, before
Congress assembled, the streets were filled with excited men, some
gathered in groups engaged in eager discussion, and others moving toward
the State House. All business was forgotten in the momentous crisis
which the country had now reached. No sooner had the members taken their
seats than the multitude gathered in a dense mass around the entrance.
The bell-man mounted to the belfry, to be ready to proclaim the joyful
tidings of freedom as soon as the final vote was passed. A bright-eyed
boy was stationed below to give the signal.

Around the bell, brought from England, had been cast, more than twenty
years before, the prophetic motto: “Proclaim liberty throughout all the
land, unto all the inhabitants thereof.” Although its loud clang had
often sounded over the city, the proclamation engraved on its iron lip
had never yet been spoken aloud.

It was expected that the final vote would be taken without delay; but
hour after hour wore on, and no report came from the mysterious hall
where the fate of a continent was in suspense. The multitude grew
impatient. The old man leaned over the railing, straining his eyes
downward, till his heart misgave him, and hope yielded to fear. But
at length, about two o’clock the door of the hall opened, and a voice
exclaimed, “It has passed!”

The word leaped like lightning from lip to lip, followed by huzzas
that shook the building. The boy-sentinel turned to the belfry,
clapped his hands, and shouted, “Ring! ring!” The desponding bell-man,
electrified into life by the joyful news, seized the iron tongue and
hurled it backward and forward with a clang that startled every heart in
Philadelphia like a bugle blast.

“Clang! Clang!” the bell of Liberty resounded on, higher and clearer
and more joyous, blending in its deep and thrilling vibration, and
proclaiming in loud and long accents over all the land the motto that
encircled it.


INDEPENDENCE BELL, PHILADELPHIA

INSCRIPTION, “PROCLAIM LIBERTY THROUGHOUT THE LAND TO ALL THE INHABITANTS
THEREOF.” JULY 4, 1776.

ANONYMOUS

    There was tumult in the city,
      In the quaint Old Quaker town,
    And the streets were rife with people
      Pacing restless up and down,—
    People gathering at corners,
      Where they whispered each to each,
    And the sweat stood on their temples
      With the earnestness of speech.

    As the bleak Atlantic currents
      Lash the wild Newfoundland shore,
    So they beat against the State House,
      So they surged against the door;
    And the mingling of their voices
      Made a harmony profound,
    Till the quiet street of Chestnut
      Was all turbulent with sound.

    “Will they do it?” “Dare they do it?”
      “Who is speaking?” “What’s the news?”
    “What of Adams?” “What of Sherman?”
      “Oh, God grant they won’t refuse!”
    “Make some way, there!” “Let me nearer!”
      “I am stifling!” “Stifle, then!
    When a nation’s life’s at hazard,
      We’ve no time to think of men!”

    So they beat against the portal,
      Man and woman, maid and child;
    And the July sun in heaven
      On the scene looked down and smiled:
    The same sun that saw the Spartan
      Shed his patriot blood in vain,
    Now beheld the soul of freedom,
      All unconquered, rise again.

    See! See! The dense crowd quivers
      Through all its lengthy line,
    As the boy beside the portal
      Looks forth to give the sign!
    With his little hands uplifted,
      Breezes dallying with his hair,
    Hark! with deep, clear intonation,
      Breaks his young voice on the air.

    Hushed the people’s swelling murmur,
      List the boy’s exultant cry!
    “Ring!” he shouts, “Ring! Grandpa,
      Ring! oh, ring for Liberty!”
    Quickly at the given signal
      The bell-man lifts his hand,
    Forth he sends the good news, making
      Iron music through the land.

    How they shouted! What rejoicing!
      How the old bell shook the air,
    Till the clang of freedom ruffled
      The calmly gliding Delaware!
    How the bonfires and the torches
      Lighted up the night’s repose,
    And from the flames, like fabled Phœnix,
      Our glorious Liberty arose!

    That old State House bell is silent,
      Hushed is now its clamorous tongue;
    But the spirit it awakened
      Still is living,—ever young;
    And when we greet the smiling sunlight
      On the Fourth of each July,
    We will ne’er forget the bell-man
      Who, betwixt the earth and sky,
    Rung out, loudly, “INDEPENDENCE;”
      Which, please God, _shall never die_!


THE DECLARATION OF INDEPENDENCE

IN CONGRESS JULY 4, 1776

(The Unanimous Declaration of the Thirteen United States of America.)

When in the course of human events, it becomes necessary for one people
to dissolve the political bands which have connected them with another,
and to assume, among the powers of the earth, the separate and equal
station to which the laws of nature and of nature’s God entitle them,
a decent respect to the opinions of mankind requires that they should
declare the causes which impel them to the separation.

We hold these truths to be self-evident, that all men are created equal,
that they are endowed by their Creator with certain inalienable rights,
that among these are life, liberty and the pursuit of happiness. That
to secure these rights, governments are instituted among men, deriving
their just powers from the consent of the governed, that, whenever any
form of government becomes destructive of these ends, it is the right of
the people to alter or to abolish it, and to institute a new government,
laying its foundation on such principles and organizing its powers in
such form, as to them shall seem most likely to effect their safety
and happiness. Prudence, indeed, will dictate that governments long
established should not be changed for light and transient causes; and,
accordingly, all experience hath shown, that mankind are more disposed
to suffer, while evils are sufferable, than to right themselves by
abolishing the forms to which they are accustomed. But when a long train
of abuses and usurpations, pursuing invariably the same object evinces
a design to reduce them under absolute despotism, it is their right, it
is their duty to throw off such government, and to provide new guards
for their future security. Such has been the patient sufferance of these
colonies; and such is now the necessity which constrains them to alter
their former systems of government. The history of the present King of
Great Britain is a history of repeated injuries and usurpations, all
having, in direct object, the establishment of an absolute tyranny over
these states. To prove this, let facts be submitted to a candid world:—

He has refused his assent to laws, the most wholesome and necessary for
the public good.

He has forbidden his Governors to pass laws of immediate and pressing
importance, unless suspended in their operation till his assent should be
obtained; and when so suspended, he has utterly neglected to attend to
them.

He has refused to pass other laws for the accommodation of large
districts of people, unless those people would relinquish the right of
representation in the legislature; a right inestimable to them, and
formidable to tyrants only.

He has called together legislative bodies at places unusual,
uncomfortable, and distant from the depository of their public records,
for the sole purpose of fatiguing them into compliance with his measures.

He has dissolved representative houses repeatedly, for opposing with
manly firmness his invasions on the rights of the people.

He has refused for a long time, after such dissolutions, to cause others
to be elected; whereby the legislative powers, incapable of annihilation,
have returned to the people at large for their exercise; the State
remaining in the meantime exposed to all the dangers of invasion from
without, and convulsions within.

He has endeavored to prevent the population of these States; for that
purpose obstructing the laws for naturalization of foreigners; refusing
to pass others to encourage their migration hither, and raising the
conditions of new appropriations of lands.

He has obstructed the administration of justice, by refusing his assent
to laws for establishing judiciary powers.

He has made judges dependent on his will alone, for the tenure of their
offices, and the amount and payment of their salaries.

He has erected a multitude of new offices, and sent hither swarms of
officers to harass our people, and eat out their substance.

He has kept among us, in times of peace, standing armies without the
consent of our legislature.

He has affected to render the military independent of, and superior to,
the civil power.

He has combined, with others, to subject us to a jurisdiction foreign to
our constitution, and unacknowledged by our laws; giving his assent to
their acts of pretended legislation:

For quartering large bodies of armed troops among us:

For protecting them, by a mock trial, from punishment for any murders
which they should commit on the inhabitants of these States:

For cutting off our trade with all parts of the world:

For imposing taxes on us without our consent:

For depriving us in many cases, of the benefits of trial by jury:

For transporting us beyond seas to be tried for pretended offenses:

For abolishing the free system of English laws in a neighboring province,
establishing therein an arbitrary government, and enlarging its
boundaries so as to render it at once an example and fit instrument for
introducing the same absolute rule into these colonies:

For taking away our charters, abolishing our most valuable laws, and
altering, fundamentally, the powers of our governments:

For suspending our own legislatures, and declaring themselves invested
with power to legislate for us in all cases whatsoever.

He has abdicated government here, by declaring us out of his protection
and waging war against us.

He has plundered our seas, ravaged our coasts, burnt our towns, and
destroyed the lives of our people.

He is, at this time, transporting large armies of foreign mercenaries to
complete the works of death, desolation and tyranny, already begun with
circumstances of cruelty and perfidy scarcely paralleled in the most
barbarous ages, and totally unworthy the head of a civilized nation.

He has constrained our fellow citizens, taken captive on the high seas,
to bear arms against their country, to become the executioners of their
friends and brethren, or to fall themselves by their hands.

He has excited domestic insurrections amongst us, and has endeavored to
bring on the inhabitants of our frontiers, the merciless Indian savages,
whose known rule of warfare is an undistinguished destruction of all
ages, sexes and conditions.

In every stage of these oppressions we have petitioned for redress in the
most humble terms; our repeated petitions have been answered only by
repeated injury. A prince, whose character is thus marked by every act
which may define a tyrant, is unfit to be the ruler of a free people.

Nor have we been wanting in attention to our British brethren. We have
warned them from time to time of attempts made by their legislature to
extend an unwarrantable jurisdiction over us. We have reminded them of
the circumstances of our emigration and settlement here. We have appealed
to their native justice and magnanimity, and we have conjured them, by
the ties of our common kindred, to disavow these usurpations, which would
inevitably interrupt our connections and correspondence. They, too, have
been deaf to the voice of justice and consanguinity. We must, therefore,
acquiesce in the necessity, which denounces our separation, and hold
them, as we hold the rest of mankind, enemies in war, in peace, friends.

We, therefore, the representatives of the United States of America,
in General Congress assembled, appealing to the Supreme Judge of the
World for the rectitude of our intentions, do, in the name, and by the
authority of the good people of these colonies, solemnly publish and
declare, That these United Colonies are, and of right ought to be, Free
and Independent States; that they are absolved from all allegiance to
the British crown, and that all political connection between them and
the state of Great Britain is, and ought to be, totally dissolved; and
that, as Free and Independent States, they have full power to levy war,
conclude peace, contract alliances, establish commerce, and to do all
other acts and things which Independent States may of right do. And, for
the support of this declaration, with a firm reliance on the protection
of Divine Providence, we mutually pledge to each other, our lives, our
fortunes, and our sacred honor.

JOHN HANCOCK

(New Hampshire) JOSIAH BARTLETT, WM. WHIPPLE, MATTHEW THORNTON.

(Massachusetts Bay) SAML. ADAMS, JOHN ADAMS, ROBT. TREAT PAINE, ELBRIDGE
GERRY.

(Rhode Island) STEP. HOPKINS, WILLIAM ELLERY.

(Connecticut) ROGER SHERMAN, SAM’EL HUNTINGTON, WM. WILLIAMS, OLIVER
WOLCOTT.

(New York) WM. FLOYD, PHIL. LIVINGSTON, FRANC. LEWIS, LEWIS MORRIS.

(New Jersey) RICHD. STOCKTON, JNO. WITHERSPOON, FRANS. HOPKINSON, JOHN
HART, ABRA. CLARK.

(Pennsylvania) ROBT. MORRIS, BENJAMIN RUSH, BENJ. FRANKLIN, JOHN MORTON,
GEO. CLYMER, JAS. SMITH, GEO. TAYLOR, JAMES WILSON, GEO. ROSS.

(Delaware) CÆSAR RODNEY, GEO. REED, THO. M’KEAN.

(Maryland) SAMUEL CHASE, WM. PACA, THOS. STONE, CHARLES CARROLL of
Carrollton.

(Virginia) GEORGE WYTHE, RICHARD HENRY LEE, TH. JEFFERSON, BENJA.
HARRISON, THOS. NELSON, JR., FRANCIS LIGHTFOOT LEE, CARTER BRAXTON.

(North Carolina) WM. HOOPER, JOSEPH HEWES, JOHN PENN.

(South Carolina) EDWARD RUTLEDGE, THOS. HEYWARD, JUNR., THOMAS LYNCH,
JUNR., ARTHUR MIDDLETON.

(Georgia) BUTTON GWINNETT, LYMAN HALL, GEO. WALTON.


INDEPENDENCE EXPLAINED

BY SAMUEL ADAMS

(Delivered in Philadelphia, August 1, 1776, twenty-seven days after the
Declaration of Independence.)

My countrymen, from the day on which an accommodation takes place between
England and America on any other terms than as independent States, I
shall date the ruin of this country. We are now, to the astonishment
of the world, three millions of souls united in one common cause. This
day we are called on to give a glorious example of which the wisest
and best of men were rejoiced to view only in speculation. This day
presents the world with the most august spectacle that its annals ever
unfolded,—millions of freemen voluntarily and deliberately forming
themselves into a society for their common defense and common happiness.
Immortal spirits of Hampden, Locke, and Sidney! will it not add to
your benevolent joys to behold your posterity rising to the dignity of
_men_—evincing to the world the reality and expediency of your systems,
and in the actual enjoyment of that equal liberty which you were happy
when on earth in delineating and recommending to mankind?

Other nations have received their laws from conquerors; some are
indebted for a constitution to the sufferings of their ancestors through
revolving centuries; the people of this country alone have formally
and deliberately chosen a government for themselves, and, with open,
uninfluenced consent, bound themselves into a social compact. And, fellow
countrymen, if ever it was granted to mortals to trace the designs of
Providence and interpret its manifestations in favor of their cause, we
may, with humility of soul, cry out, NOT UNTO US, NOT UNTO US, BUT TO THY
NAME BE THE PRAISE. The confusion of the devices of our enemies, and the
rage of the elements against them, have done almost as much towards our
success as either our counsels or our arms.

The time at which this attempt in our liberties was made,—when we were
ripened into maturity, had acquired a knowledge of war, and were free
from the incursions of intestine enemies,—the _gradual_ advances of our
oppressors, enabling us to prepare for our defense, the unusual fertility
of our lands, the clemency of the seasons, the success which at first
attended our feeble arms, producing unanimity among our friends and
compelling our internal foes to acquiescence,—these are all strong and
palpable marks and assurances that Providence IS YET GRACIOUS UNTO ZION,
THAT IT WILL TURN AWAY THE CAPTIVITY OF JACOB! Driven from every other
corner of the earth, freedom of thought and the right of private judgment
in matters of conscience direct their course to this happy country as
their last asylum. Let us cherish the noble guests! Let us shelter them
under the wings of universal toleration! Be this the seat of UNBOUNDED
RELIGIOUS FREEDOM! She will bring with her in her train, Industry,
Wisdom, and Commerce.

Our union is now complete. You have in the first armies sufficient to
repel the whole force of your enemies. The hearts of your soldiers
beat high with the spirit of freedom. Go on, then, in your generous
enterprise, with gratitude to heaven for past success, and confidence
of it in the future! For my own part, I ask no greater blessing than
to share with you the common danger and the common glory. If I have a
wish dearer to my soul than that my ashes may be mingled with those of
a Warren and a Montgomery, it is, THAT THESE AMERICAN STATES MAY NEVER
CEASE TO BE FREE AND INDEPENDENT!


THE DIGNITY OF OUR NATION’S FOUNDERS

BY WILLIAM M. EVARTS

The Declaration of Independence was, when it occurred, a capital
transaction in human affairs; as such it has kept its place in
history; as such it will maintain itself while human interest in human
institutions shall endure. The scene and the actors, for their profound
impression on the world, at the time and ever since, have owed nothing
to dramatic effects, nothing to epical exaggerations. To the eye there
was nothing wonderful or vast or splendid or pathetic in the movement or
the display. Imagination or art can give no sensible grace or decoration
to the persons, the place, or the performance which made up the business
of that day. The worth and force that belong to the agents and the
action rest wholly on the wisdom, the courage and the faith that formed
and executed the great design, and the potency and permanence of its
operation upon the affairs of the world which followed as foreseen and
legitimate consequences.

The dignity of the act is the deliberate, circumspect, open and serene
performance by these men, in the clear light of day and by a concurrent
purpose, of a civic duty which embraced the greatest hazards to
themselves and to all the people from whom they held this disputed
discretion but which to their sober judgments promised benefits to that
people and to their posterity, exceeding these hazards and commensurate
with its own fitness. The question of their conduct is to be measured
by the actual weight and pressure of the manifold considerations which
surrounded the subject before them and by the abundant evidence that they
comprehended their vastness and variety. By a voluntary and responsible
choice they willed to do what was done and what without their will would
not have been done.

Thus estimated, the illustrious act covers all who participated in it
with its own renown and makes them forever conspicuous among men, as it
is forever famous among events. And thus the signers of our Declaration
of Independence “wrote their names where all nations should behold
them and all time should not efface them.” It was “in the course of
human events” intrusted to them to determine whether the fullness of
time had come when a nation should be born in a day. They declared
the independence of a new nation in the sense in which men declare
emancipation or declare war,—the declaration created what was declared.

Famous always among men are the founders of states and fortunate above
all others in such fame are these, our fathers, whose combined wisdom and
courage began the great structure of our national existence and laid sure
the foundations of liberty and justice on which it rests. Fortunate first
in the clearness of their title and in the world’s acceptance of their
rightful claim. Fortunate next in the enduring magnitude of the State
they founded and the beneficence of its protection of the vast interests
of human life and happiness which have here had their home. Fortunate
again in the admiring imitations of their work which the institutions
of the most powerful and most advanced nations more and more exhibit.
Fortunate last of all in the full demonstration of our later time that
their work is adequate to withstand the most disastrous storms of human
fortunes and survive unwrecked, unshaken and unharmed.


THE CHARACTER OF THE DECLARATION OF INDEPENDENCE

BY GEORGE BANCROFT

This immortal State paper, which for its composer was the aurora of
enduring fame, was “the genuine effusion of the soul of the country
at that time,” the revelation of its mind, when, in its youth, its
enthusiasm, its sublime confronting of danger, it rose to the highest
creative powers of which man is capable. The bill of rights which it
promulgates is of rights that are older than human institutions, and
spring from the eternal justice that is anterior to the State.

Two political theories divided the world: one founded the Commonwealth on
the reason of State, the policy of expediency; the other on the immutable
principles of morals. The new Republic, as it took its place among the
powers of the world, proclaimed its faith in the truth and reality and
unchangeableness of freedom, virtue and right.

The heart of Jefferson, in writing the Declaration, and of Congress in
adopting it, beat for all humanity; the assertion of right was made for
the entire world of mankind, and all coming generations, without any
exception whatever; for the proposition which admits of exceptions can
never be self-evident. As it was put forth in the name of the ascendant
people of that time, it was sure to make the circuit of the world,
passing everywhere through the despotic countries of Europe; and the
astonished nations, as they read that all men are created equal, started
out of their lethargy, like those who have been exiles from childhood,
when they suddenly hear the dimly remembered accents of their mother
tongue.


THE DECLARATION OF INDEPENDENCE

BY HENRY T. RANDALL

To the Patriots, the Declaration gave strength and courage. It gave them
a definite purpose,—and a name and object commensurate with the cost.
When it was formally read by the magistracy from the halls of justice
and in the public marts by the officers of the army at the head of their
divisions, by the clergy from their pulpits, its grandeur impressed the
popular imagination. The American people pronounced it a fit instrument,
clothed in fitting words. The public enthusiasm burst forth, sometimes in
gay and festive, and sometimes in solemn and religious, observances—as
the Cavalier or Puritan taste predominated.

In the Southern and Middle cities and villages, the riotous populace tore
down the images of monarchs and Colonial governors and dragged them with
ropes round their necks through the streets—cannon thundered, bonfires
blazed—the opulent feasted, drank toasts, and joined in hilarious
celebrations. In New England, the grimmer joy manifested itself in
prayers and sermons, and in religious rites.


THE DECLARATION OF INDEPENDENCE

BY JOHN QUINCY ADAMS

The Declaration of Independence! The interest which in that paper has
survived the occasion upon which it was issued; the interest which is of
every age and every clime; the interest which quickens with the lapse of
years, spreads as it grows old, and brightens as it recedes, is in the
principles which it proclaims. It was the first solemn declaration, by a
nation, of the only legitimate foundation of civil government. It was the
corner stone of a new fabric, destined to cover the surface of the globe.
It demolished at a stroke the lawfulness of all governments founded upon
conquest. It swept away all the rubbish of accumulated centuries of
servitude. It announced in practical form to the world the transcendent
truth of the inalienable sovereignty of the people. It proved that the
social compact was no figment of the imagination, but a real, solid,
and sacred bond of the social union. From the day of this declaration
the people of North America were no longer the fragment of a distant
empire, imploring justice and mercy from an inexorable master in another
hemisphere. They were no longer children, appealing in vain to the
sympathies of a heartless mother; no longer subjects, leaning upon the
shattered columns of royal promises, and invoking the faith of parchment
to secure their rights. They were a nation, asserting as of right, and
maintaining by war, its own existence. A nation was born in a day.

              “How many ages hence
    Shall this, their lofty scene, be acted o’er
    In states unborn, and accents yet unknown?”

It will be acted o’er, but it never can be repeated. It stands, and
must forever stand, alone; a beacon on the summit of the mountain, to
which all the inhabitants of the earth may turn their eyes for a genial
and saving light, till time shall be lost in eternity, and this globe
itself dissolves, nor leave a wreck behind. It stands forever, a light of
admonition to the rulers of men, a light of salvation and redemption to
the oppressed. So long as this planet shall be inhabited by human beings,
so long as man shall be of social nature, so long as government shall be
necessary to the great moral purposes of society, so long as it shall
be abused to the purposes of oppression—so long shall this Declaration
hold out to the sovereign and to the subject the extent and boundaries of
their respective rights and duties, founded in the laws of nature and of
nature’s God.


THE DECLARATION OF INDEPENDENCE[7]

BY TUDOR JENKS

“What is the most dramatic incident in American history and why?”

The emphatic and determining word in this question is the adverb “most.”
To answer conclusively, the method must be comparative; it is not enough
to stir the emotions of patriotism, to excite the imagination of the
poetic soul, to depict with skill bygone scenes so that they live again.
The intellectual faculties must be satisfied that the chosen incident is
truly an incident, that it is dramatic, and that it is more dramatic than
all others in our history.

Definition seems but a poor prelude to the drama, but as the defender
of the Constitution began his reply to Hayne by asking for the reading
of the resolution before the Senate, it may be permissible to refer to
the dictionary for guidance, as the storm-tossed mariner of Webster’s
metaphor glanced at the sun to rectify his course.

“Incident,” as used in the given question, can mean only “something which
takes place in connection with an event or series of events of greater
importance” (Century Dictionary), since any broader meaning of the word
would be too inclusive, and might permit the naming of a whole epoch.

“Dramatic” (by the same author) is “characterized by the force and
animation in act or expression appropriate to the drama.” Force and
animation may of course be psychical or physical; but if psychical they
must find expression in some form appreciable by the senses, else they
are not dramatic.

Bearing these guiding principles in mind, let us see in what moment of
American history we shall find that incident so connected with greater
events, and so expressed as to be “The most dramatic”—that incident
toward which all preceding events led, and from which subsequent events
have sprung. Let us then select as expressing that incident the most
forceful and animated action that would be appropriate to dramatic
representation.

The periods of American history are the traditionary, that of discovery
and exploration, that of colonization. These three are preparatory,
and “American” only in a geographical sense. Then come the period
of revolution, that of nationality and rebellion and finally the
present—which may be called the period of expansion, since it marks for
good or for evil the birth of the nation as a world power.

These periods group naturally into two great classes: I. America as an
appanage of Europe. II. America as independent. The transition from one
existence to the other took place in an instant of time. Before the
Declaration of Independence our nation did not exist; once that document
was ratified, the United States was created a nation.

Here, then, is the dividing of the ways; here the act of divine creation
of which our forefathers were but the human instruments. This is the one
universally celebrated and commemorated moment in our history—the birth
of “a new nation conceived in liberty, and dedicated to the proposition
that all men are created equal.”

The great Civil war was but the test whether that nation could endure;
so said Lincoln, whom we are learning to know as our greatest statesman.
All our subsequent history is but the voyage of the ship of state by the
chart then drafted.

Toward the Declaration converge all previous lines of historical
development; from the Declaration diverge all the lines along which
patriotic statesmanship must hereafter guide the national future.
Deviations from these converging and diverging paths have been but blind
trails to be painfully retraced.

Here, then, let us repeat, is the focus of our national life.

In what act, in what incident shall we find this moment of time expressed
most dramatically?

The streets of Philadelphia were thronged with citizens awaiting news of
the action of Congress. Within the old State House were the councilors
of the colonies—the group of contemporaries whom Gladstone declared
unequaled in the history of the world. One by one the names of the
representatives were signed to that document which was to commit them to
death as rebels or to immortality as patriots.

As the last name was affixed, a little boy ran from the doorway out into
the street, and, tossing his arms above his head, gave forth the tidings
of a nation’s birth in the words:

                          “Ring! _Ring!_ RING!”

and then the Liberty Bell echoed the gospel, as foreordained in its
inscription: “Proclaim liberty to the land: to all the inhabitants
thereof.”

That is the most dramatic incident in American history.

Whether we view its inception or its outcome, it stands unrivaled. We
shall forever “celebrate it with thanksgiving” so long as the nation
endures.

This incident responds to every test. It is the action of a single
person actuated by intense emotion; he, a child, was a type of the fact
he expressed; through his puny action began the independent life of a
nation to whose future none dares prescribe limits.

Discovery and colonization were inevitable, and are common to all lands.
Civil wars are expressions rather than causes of great crises. Civil and
commercial progress are inevitable. But the Declaration of Independence
was an act of conscious choice.

No other incident in our history was so momentous, none so dramatic and
comprehensive of past and future.

Columbus was an unconscious instrument in opening a new world; the
Spanish, French, Dutch, and English explorers were all working toward a
consummation none foresaw; the founders of colonies had their ideals, but
all have been swallowed up in our national development. The Revolution
alone looked both backward and forward, and the fathers of the republic
gave us the law of our national being.

The birth-cry of the nation came from the lips of the child who cried
aloud in the streets:

                          “Ring! _Ring!_ RING!”


THE DECLARATION OF INDEPENDENCE IN THE LIGHT OF MODERN CRITICISM[8]

BY MOSES COIT TYLER

(Professor of History in Cornell University.)


I

It can hardly be doubted that some hindrance to a right estimate of the
Declaration of Independence is occasioned by either of two opposite
conditions of mind, both of which are often to be met with among us;
on the one hand, a condition of hereditary, uncritical awe and worship
of the American Revolution, and of that state paper as its absolutely
perfect and glorious expression; on the other hand, a later condition
of cultivated distrust of the Declaration, as a piece of writing lifted
up into inordinate renown by the passionate and heroic circumstances
of its origin, and ever since then extolled beyond reason by the blind
energy of patriotic enthusiasm. Turning from the former state of mind,
which obviously calls for no further comment, we may note, as a partial
illustration of the latter, that American confidence in the supreme
intellectual merit of this all-famous document received a serious wound
some forty years ago from the hand of Rufus Choate, when, with a courage
greater than would now be required for such an act, he characterized
it as made up of “glittering and sounding generalities of natural
right.” What the great advocate then so unhesitatingly suggested, many
a thoughtful American since then has at least suspected—that our great
proclamation, as a piece of political literature, cannot stand the test
of modern analysis; that it belongs to the immense class of over-praised
productions; that it is, in fact, a stately patchwork of sweeping
propositions of somewhat doubtful validity; that it has long imposed upon
mankind by the well-known effectiveness of verbal glitter and sound;
that, at the best, it is an example of florid political declamation
belonging to the sophomoric period of our national life, a period which,
as we flatter ourselves, we have now outgrown.

Nevertheless, it is to be noted that whatever authority the Declaration
of Independence has acquired in the world, has been due to no lack of
criticism, either at the time of its first appearance, or since then; a
fact which seems to tell in favor of its essential worth and strength.
From the date of its original publication down to the present moment, it
has been attacked again and again, either in anger, or in contempt, by
friends as well as by enemies of the American Revolution, by liberals
in politics as well as by conservatives. It has been censured for its
substance, it has been censured for its form, for its misstatements of
fact, for its fallacies in reasoning, for its audacious novelties and
paradoxes, for its total lack of all novelty, for its repetition of old
and threadbare statements, even for its downright plagiarisms; finally,
for its grandiose and vaporing style.


II

One of the earliest and ablest of its assailants was Thomas Hutchinson,
the last civil governor of the colony of Massachusetts, who, being
stranded in London by the political storm which had blown him
thither, published there, in the autumn of 1776, his “Strictures upon
the Declaration of the Congress at Philadelphia,” wherein, with an
unsurpassed knowledge of the origin of the controversy, and with an
unsurpassed acumen in the discussion of it, he traverses the entire
document, paragraph by paragraph, for the purpose of showing that its
allegations in support of American Independence are “false and frivolous.”

A better written, and, upon the whole, a more plausible and a more
powerful arraignment of the great Declaration was the celebrated pamphlet
by Sir John Dalrymple, “The Rights of Great Britain Asserted against the
Claims of America: Being an Answer to the Declaration of the General
Congress,”—a pamphlet scattered broadcast over the world at such a
rate that at least eight editions of it were published during the last
three or four months of the year, 1776. Here, again, the manifesto of
Congress is subjected to a searching examination, in order to prove that
“the facts are either willfully or ignorantly misrepresented, and the
arguments deduced from premises that have no foundation in truth.” It is
doubtful if any disinterested student of history, any competent judge of
reasoning, will now deny to this pamphlet the praise of making out a very
strong case against the historical accuracy and the logical soundness of
many parts of the Declaration of Independence.

Undoubtedly, the force of such censures is for us much broken by the
fact that they proceeded from men who were themselves partisans in the
Revolutionary controversy, and bitterly hostile to the whole movement
which the Declaration was intended to justify. Such is not the case,
however, with the leading modern English critics of the same document,
who while blaming in severe terms the policy of the British Government
toward the Thirteen Colonies, have also found much to abate from the
confidence due to this official announcement of the reasons for our
secession from the empire. For example, Earl Russell, after frankly
saying that the great disruption proclaimed by the Declaration of
Independence was a result which Great Britain had “used every means
most fitted to bring about,” such as “vacillation in council, harshness
in language, feebleness in execution, disregard of American sympathies
and affections,” also pointed out that “the truth of this memorable
Declaration” was “warped” by “one singular defect,” namely, its
exclusive and excessive arraignment of George the Third, “as a single
and despotic tyrant,” much like Philip the Second to the people of the
Netherlands.

This temperate criticism from an able and a liberal English statesman of
the present century may be said to touch the very core of the problem
as to the historic justice of our great indictment of the last King of
America; and there is deep significance in the fact that this is the very
criticism upon the document, which, as John Adams tells us, he himself
had in mind when it was first submitted to him in committee, and even,
when, shortly afterward, he advocated its adoption by Congress. After
mentioning certain things in it with which he was delighted, he adds:

“There were other expressions which I would not have inserted if I had
drawn it up—particularly that which called the king tyrant. I thought
this too personal; for I never believed George to be a tyrant in
disposition and in nature. I always believed him to be deceived by his
courtiers on both sides of the Atlantic, and in his official capacity
only cruel. I thought the expression too passionate, and too much like
scolding, for so grave and solemn a document; but, as Franklin and
Sherman were to inspect it afterwards I thought it would not become me to
strike it out. I consented to report it.”

A more minute and a more poignant criticism of the Declaration of
Independence has been made in recent years by still another English
writer of liberal tendencies, who, however, in his capacity as critic,
seems here to labor under the disadvantage of having transferred to the
document which he undertakes to judge much of the extreme dislike which
he has for the man who wrote it, whom, indeed, he regards as a sophist,
as a demagogue, as quite capable of inveracity in speech, and as bearing
some resemblance to Robespierre “in his feline nature, his malignant
egotism, and his intense suspiciousness, as well as in his bloody-minded,
yet possibly sincere, philanthropy.” In the opinion of Prof. Goldwin
Smith, our great national manifesto is written “in a highly rhetorical
strain; it opens with sweeping aphorisms about the natural rights of man,
at which political science now smiles, and which ... might seem strange
when framed for slave-holding communities by a publicist who himself
held slaves”; while, in his specifications of fact, it “is not more
scrupulously truthful than are the general utterances” of the statesman
who was its scribe. Its charges that the several offensive acts of the
king, besides “evincing a design to reduce the colonists under absolute
despotism,” “all had as their direct object the establishment of an
absolute tyranny,” are simply “propositions which history cannot accept.”
Moreover, the Declaration “blinks the fact that many of the acts, styled
steps of usurpation, were measures of repression, which, however unwise
or excessive, had been provoked by popular outrage. No government could
allow its officers to be assaulted and their houses sacked, its loyal
lieges to be tarred and feathered, or the property of merchants sailing
under its flag to be thrown by lawless hands into the sea.” Even “the
preposterous violence and the manifest insincerity of the suppressed
clause” against slavery and the slave-trade “are enough to create
suspicion as to the spirit in which the whole document was framed.”


III

Finally, as has been already intimated, not even among Americans
themselves has the Declaration of Independence been permitted to pass
on into the enjoyment of its superb renown, without much critical
disparagement at the hands of statesmen and historians. No doubt Calhoun
had its preamble in mind when he declared that “nothing can be more
unfounded and false” than “the prevalent opinion that all men are born
free and equal”; for “it rests upon the assumption of a fact which is
contrary to universal observation.” Of course, all Americans who have
shared to any extent in Calhoun’s doctrines respecting human society
could hardly fail to agree with him in regarding as fallacious and
worthless those general propositions in the Declaration which seem to
constitute its logical starting point, as well as its ultimate defense.

Perhaps, however, the most frequent form of disparagement to which
Jefferson’s great state paper has been subjected among us is that
which would minimize his merit in composing it, by denying to it the
merit of originality. For example, Richard Henry Lee sneered at it as
a thing “copied from Locke’s _Treatise on Government_.” The author of
a life of Jefferson, published in the year of Jefferson’s retirement
from the presidency, suggests that the credit of having composed the
Declaration of Independence “has been perhaps more generally, than
truly, given by the public” to that great man. Charles Campbell, the
historian of Virginia, intimates that some expressions in the document
were taken without acknowledgment from Aphra Behn’s tragi-comedy,
“The Widow-Ranter, or the History of Bacon in Virginia.” John Stockton
Littell describes the Declaration of Independence as “that enduring
monument at once of patriotism, and of genius and skill in the art
of appropriation”—asserting that “for the sentiments and much of the
language” of it, Jefferson was indebted to Chief Justice Brayton’s
charge to the grand jury of Charleston, delivered in April, 1776, as
well as to the Declaration of Independence said to have been adopted by
some citizens of Mecklenburg County, North Carolina, in May, 1775. Even
the latest and most critical editor of the writings of Jefferson calls
attention to the fact that a glance at the Declaration of Rights, as
adopted by Virginia on the 12th of June, 1776, “would seem to indicate
the source from which Jefferson derived a most important and popular
part” of his famous production. By no one, however, has the charge of a
lack of originality been pressed with so much decisiveness as by John
Adams, who took evident pleasure in speaking of it as a document in
which were merely “recapitulated” previous and well-known statements
of American rights and wrongs, and who, as late as in the year 1822,
deliberately wrote:

“There is not an idea in it but what had been hackneyed in Congress for
two years before. The substance of it is contained in the declaration of
rights and the violation of those rights, in the Journals of Congress,
in 1774. Indeed, the essence of it is contained in a pamphlet, voted and
printed by the town of Boston, before the first Congress met, composed by
James Otis, as I suppose, in one of his lucid intervals, and pruned and
polished by Samuel Adams.”


IV

Perhaps nowhere in our literature would it be possible to find a
criticism brought forward by a really able man against any piece of
writing less applicable to the case, and of less force and value, than
is this particular criticism by John Adams and others, as to the lack
of originality in the Declaration of Independence. Indeed, for such a
paper as Jefferson was commissioned to write, the one quality which
it could not properly have had, the one quality which would have been
fatal to its acceptance either by the American Congress or by the
American people—is originality. They were then at the culmination of
a tremendous controversy over alleged grievances of the most serious
kind—a controversy that had been steadily raging for at least twelve
years. In the course of that long dispute, every phase of it, whether
as to abstract right or constitutional privilege or personal procedure,
had been presented in almost every conceivable form of speech. At last,
they had resolved, in view of all this experience, no longer to prosecute
the controversy as members of the empire; they had resolved to revolt,
and, casting off forever their ancient fealty to the British crown, to
separate from the empire, and to establish themselves as a new nation
among the nations of the earth. In this emergency as it happened,
Jefferson was called upon to put into form a suitable statement of the
chief considerations which prompted them to this great act of revolution,
and which, as they believed, justified it. What, then, was Jefferson
to do? Was he to regard himself as a mere literary essayist, set to
produce before the world a sort of prize-dissertation—a calm, analytic,
judicial treatise on history and politics with a particular application
to Anglo-American affairs—one essential merit of which would be its
originality as a contribution to historical and political literature?
Was he not, rather, to regard himself, as, for the time being, the very
mouthpiece and prophet of the people whom he represented, and as such
required to bring together and to set in order, in their name, not what
was new, but what was old; to gather up into his own soul, as much as
possible, whatever was then also in their souls, their very thoughts and
passions, their ideas of constitutional law, their interpretations of
fact, their opinions as to men and as to events in all that ugly quarrel,
their notions of justice, of civic dignity, of human rights; finally,
their memories of wrongs which seemed to them intolerable, especially
of wrongs inflicted upon them during those twelve years by the hands of
insolent and brutal men, in the name of the king, and by his apparent
command?

Moreover, as the nature of the task laid upon him made it necessary
that he should thus state, as the reasons for their intended act,
those very considerations both as to fact and as to opinion which had
actually operated upon their minds, so did it require him to do so,
to some extent, in the very language which the people themselves, in
their more formal and deliberate utterances, had all along been using.
In the development of political life in England and America, there had
already been created a vast literature of constitutional progress—a
literature common to both portions of the English race, pervaded by its
own stately traditions, and reverberating certain great phrases which
formed, as one may say, almost the vernacular of English justice, and of
English aspiration for a free, manly and orderly political life. In this
vernacular the Declaration of Independence was written. The phraseology
thus characteristic of it is the very phraseology of the champions of
constitutional expansion, of civic dignity and progress, within the
English race ever since Magna Charta; of the great state papers of
English freedom in the seventeenth century, particularly the Petition
of Right in 1629, and the Bill of Rights in 1789; of the great English
Charters for colonization in America; of the great English exponents
of legal and political progress—Sir Edward Coke, John Milton, Sir
Philip Sidney, John Locke; finally, of the great American exponents of
political liberty, and of the chief representative bodies, whether local
or general, which had convened in America from the time of Stamp Act
Congress until that of the Congress which resolved upon our independence.
To say, therefore, that the official declaration of that resolve is
a paper made up of the very opinions, beliefs, unbeliefs, the very
sentiments, prejudices, passions, even the errors in judgment and the
personal misconstructions—if they were such—which then actually impelled
the American people to that mighty act, and that all these are expressed
in the very phrases which they had been accustomed to use, is to pay to
that state-paper the highest tribute as to its fitness for the purpose
for which it was framed.

Of much of this, also, Jefferson himself seems to have been conscious;
and perhaps never does he rise before us with more dignity, with more
truth, than when, late in his lifetime, hurt by the captious and jangling
words of disparagement then recently put into writing by his old
comrade, to the effect that the Declaration of Independence “contained no
new ideas, that it is a commonplace compilation, its sentences hackneyed
in Congress for two years before, and its essence contained in Otis’s
pamphlet,” Jefferson quietly remarked that perhaps these statements might
“all be true: of that I am not to be the judge.... Whether I had gathered
my ideas from reading or reflection, I do not know. I know only that I
turned to neither book nor pamphlet while writing it. I did not consider
it as any part of my charge to invent new ideas altogether and to offer
no sentiment which had ever been expressed before.”

Before passing from this phase of the subject, however, it should be
added that, while the Declaration of Independence lacks originality in
the sense just indicated, in another and perhaps in a higher sense, it
possesses originality—it is individualized by the character and by the
genius of its author. Jefferson gathered up the thoughts and emotions
and even the characteristic phrases of the people for whom he wrote,
and these he perfectly incorporated with what was already in his mind,
and then to the music of his own keen, rich, passionate, and enkindling
style, he mustered them into that stately and triumphant procession
wherein, as some of us still think, they will go marching on to the
world’s end.

There were then in Congress several other men who could have written the
Declaration of Independence, and written it well—notably Franklin, either
of the two Adamses, Richard Henry Lee, William Livingston, and, best of
all, but for his own opposition to the measure, John Dickinson; but had
any one of these other men written the Declaration of Independence,
while it would have contained, doubtless, nearly the same topics and
nearly the same great formulas of political statement, it would yet have
been a wholly different composition from this of Jefferson’s. No one at
all familiar with his other writings, as well as with the writings of his
chief contemporaries, could ever have a moment’s doubt, even if the fact
were not already notorious, that this document was by Jefferson. He put
into it something that was his own, and that no one else could have put
there. He put himself into it—his own genius, his own moral force, his
faith in God, his faith in ideas, his love of innovation, his passion for
progress, his invincible enthusiasm, his intolerance of prescription, of
injustice, of cruelty; his sympathy, his clarity of vision, his affluence
of diction, his power to fling out great phrases which will long fire and
cheer the souls of men struggling against political unrighteousness.

And herein lies its essential originality, perhaps the most precious,
and, indeed, almost the only originality ever attaching to any great
literary product that is representative of its time. He made for himself
no improper claim, therefore, when he directed that upon the granite
obelisk at his grave should be carved the words: “Here was buried Thomas
Jefferson, author of the Declaration of Independence.”


V

If the Declaration of Independence is now to be fairly judged by us, it
must be judged with reference to what it was intended to be, namely,
an impassioned manifesto of one party, and that the weaker party, in a
violent race-quarrel; of a party resolved, at last, upon the extremity
of revolution, and already menaced by the inconceivable disaster of
being defeated in the very act of armed rebellion against the mightiest
military power on earth. This manifesto, then, is not to be censured
because, being avowedly a statement of his own side of the quarrel,
it does not also contain a moderate and judicial statement of the
opposite side; or because, being necessarily partisan in method, it is
likewise both partisan and vehement in tone; or because it bristles
with accusations against the enemy so fierce and so unqualified as now
to seem in some respects overdrawn; or because it resounds with certain
great aphorisms about the natural rights of man, at which, indeed,
political science cannot now smile, except to its own discomfiture
and shame—aphorisms which are likely to abide in this world as the
chief source and inspiration of heroic enterprises among men for
self-deliverance from oppression.

Taking into account, therefore, as we are bound to do, the circumstances
of its origin, and especially its purpose as a solemn and piercing appeal
to mankind on behalf of a small and weak nation against the alleged
injustice and cruelty of a great and powerful one, it still remains our
duty to inquire whether, as has been asserted in our time, history must
set aside either of the two central charges embodied in the Declaration
of Independence.

The first of these charges affirms that the several acts complained of by
the colonists evinced “a design to reduce them under absolute despotism,”
and had as their “direct object the establishment of an absolute tyranny”
over the American people. Was this, indeed, a groundless charge, in the
sense intended by the words “despotism” and “tyranny”—that is, in the
sense commonly given to those words in the usage of the English-speaking
race? According to that usage, it was not an Oriental despotism that
was meant, nor a Greek tyranny, nor a Roman, nor a Spanish. The sort of
despot, the sort of tyrant, whom the English people, ever since the time
of King John and especially during the period of the Stuarts, had been
accustomed to look for and to guard against, was the sort of tyrant or
despot that could be evolved out of the conditions of English political
life. Furthermore, he was not by them expected to appear among them at
the outset in the fully developed shape of a Philip or an Alva in the
Netherlands. They were able to recognize him, they were prepared to
resist him, in the earliest and most incipient stage of his being—at the
moment, in fact, when he should make his first attempt to gain all power
over his people, by assuming the single power to take their property
without their consent. Hence it was, as Edmund Burke pointed out in the
House of Commons only a few weeks before the American Revolution entered
upon its military phase, that:

“The great contests for freedom ... were from the earliest times chiefly
upon the question of taxing. Most of the contests in the ancient
commonwealths turned primarily on the right of election of magistrates,
or on the balance among the several orders of the state. The question of
money was not with them so immediate. But in England it was otherwise.
On this point of taxes the ablest pens and most eloquent tongues have
been exercised, the greatest spirits have acted and suffered.... They
took infinite pains to inculcate, as a fundamental principle, that
in all monarchies the people must in effect, themselves, mediately or
immediately, possess the power of granting their own money, or no shadow
of liberty could subsist. The colonies draw from you, as with their
life-blood, these ideas and principles. Their love of liberty, as with
you, fixed and attached on this specific point of taxing. Liberty might
be safe or might be endangered in twenty other particulars without their
being much pleased or alarmed. Here they felt its pulse, and as they
found that beat, they thought themselves sick or sound.”

Accordingly, the meaning which the English race on both sides of
the Atlantic were accustomed to attach to the words “tyranny” and
“despotism,” was a meaning to some degree ideal; it was a meaning drawn
from the extraordinary political sagacity with which the race is endowed,
from their extraordinary sensitiveness as to the use of the taxing-power
in government, from their instinctive perception of the commanding place
of the taxing-power among all the other forms of power in the state,
from their perfect assurance that he who holds the purse with the power
to fill it and to empty it, holds the key of the situation—can maintain
an army of his own, can rule without consulting Parliament, can silence
criticism, can crush opposition, can strip his subjects of every vestige
of political life; in other words, he can make slaves of them, he can
make a despot and a tyrant of himself. Therefore, the system which in
the end might develop into results so palpably tyrannic and despotic,
they bluntly called a tyranny and a despotism in the beginning. To say,
therefore, that the Declaration of Independence did the same, is to say
that it spoke good English. Of course, history will be ready to set aside
the charge thus made in language not all liable to be misunderstood, just
so soon as history is ready to set aside the common opinion that the
several acts of the British government, from 1764 to 1776, for laying
and enforcing taxation in America, did evince a somewhat particular
and systematic design to take away some portion of the property of the
American people without their consent.

The second of the two great charges contained in the Declaration of
Independence, while intimating that some share in the blame is due to the
British Parliament and to the British people, yet fastens upon the king
himself as the one person chiefly responsible for the scheme of American
tyranny therein set forth, and culminates in the frank description of
him as “a prince whose character is thus marked by every act which may
define a tyrant.” Is this accusation of George the Third now to be set
aside as unhistoric? Was that king, or was he not, chiefly responsible
for the American policy of the British government between the years 1764
and 1776? If he was so, then the historic soundness of the most important
portion of the Declaration of Independence is vindicated.

Fortunately, this question can be answered without hesitation, and in
a few words; and for these few words, an American writer of to-day,
conscious of his own bias of nationality, will rightly prefer to
cite such words as have been uttered upon the subject by the ablest
English historians of our time. Upon their statements alone it must
be concluded that George the Third ascended his throne with the fixed
purpose of resuming to the crown many of those powers which, by the
constitution of England, did not then belong to it, and that in this
purpose, at least during the first twenty-five years of his reign, he
substantially succeeded—himself determining what should be the policy
of each administration, what opinions his ministers should advocate in
Parliament, and what measures Parliament itself should adopt. Says Sir
Erskine May:

“The king desired to undertake personally the chief administration of
public affairs, to direct the policy of his ministers, and himself to
distribute the patronage of the crown. He was ambitious not only to
reign, but to govern. Strong as were the ministers, the king was resolved
to wrest all power from their hands, and to exercise it himself. But
what was this in effect but to assert that the king should be his own
minister?... The king’s tactics were fraught with danger, as well to the
crown itself as to the constitutional liberties of the people.”

Already prior to the year 1778, according to Lecky, the king had
“laboriously built up” in England a “system of personal government”; and
it was because he was unwilling to have this system disturbed that he
then refused, “in defiance of the most earnest representations of his
own minister and of the most eminent politicians of every party ... to
send for the greatest of living statesmen at the moment when the empire
appeared to be in the very agonies of dissolution.... Either Chatham
or Rockingham should have insisted that the policy of the country
should be directed by its responsible ministers and not dictated by an
irresponsible sovereign.”

This refusal of the king to pursue the course which was called for by
the constitution, and which would have taken the control of the policy
of the government out of his hands, was, according to the same great
historian, an act “the most criminal in the whole reign of George the
Third; ... as criminal as any of those acts which led Charles the First
to the scaffold.”

Even so early as the year 1768, according to John Richard Green,

“George the Third had at last reached his aim.... In the early days of
the ministry” (which began in that year) “his influence was felt to be
predominant. In its later and more disastrous days it was supreme; for
Lord North, who became the head of the ministry on Grafton’s retirement
in 1770, was the mere mouthpiece of the king. ‘Not only did he direct
the minister,’ a careful observer tells us, ‘in all important matters of
foreign and domestic policy, but he instructed him as to the management
of debates in Parliament, suggested what motions should be made or
opposed, and how measures should be carried. He reserved for himself all
the patronage, he arranged the whole cast of the administration, settled
the relative place and pretentions of ministers of state, law officers,
and members of the household, nominated and promoted the English and
Scotch judges, appointed and translated bishops and deans, and dispensed
other preferments in the church. He disposed of military governments,
regiments, and commissions, and himself ordered the marching of troops.
He gave and refused titles, honors, and pensions.’ All this immense
patronage was steadily used for the creation of a party in both houses of
Parliament attached to the king himself.... George, was, in fact, sole
minister during the fifteen years which followed; and the shame of the
darkest hour of English history lies wholly at his door.”

Surely, until these tremendous verdicts of English history shall
be set aside, there need be no anxiety in any quarter as to the
historic soundness of the two great accusations which together make
up the principal portion of the Declaration of Independence. In the
presence of these verdicts also, even the passion, the intensity of
language, in which those accusations are uttered, seem to find a
perfect justification. Indeed, in the light of the most recent and most
unprejudiced expert testimony, the whole document, both in its substance
and in its form, seems to have been the logical response of a nation of
brave men to the great words of the greatest of English statesmen, as
spoken in the House of Commons precisely ten years before:

“This kingdom has no right to lay a tax on the colonies. Sir, I rejoice
that America has resisted. Three millions of people, so dead to all the
feelings of liberty as voluntarily to submit to be slaves, would have
been fit instruments to make slaves of the rest.”


VI

Thus, ever since its first announcement to the world, and down almost to
the present moment, has the Declaration of Independence been tested by
criticism of every possible kind—by criticism intended and expected to
be destructive. Apparently, however, all this criticism has failed to
accomplish its object.

It is proper for us to remember, also, that what we call criticism is not
the only valid test of the genuineness and worth of any piece of writing
of great practical interest to mankind; there is, in addition, the test
of actual use and service, in direct contact with the common sense and
the moral sense of large masses of men, under various conditions, and for
a long period. Probably no writing which is not essentially sound and
true has ever survived this test.

Neither from this test has the great Declaration any need to shrink. As
to the immediate use for which it was sent forth—that of rallying and
uniting the friends of the Revolution, and bracing them for their great
task—its effectiveness was so great and so obvious that it has never
been denied. During the century and a quarter since the Revolution, its
influence on the political character and the political conduct of the
American people has been great beyond calculation. For example, after we
had achieved our own national deliverance, and had advanced into that
enormous and somewhat corrupting material prosperity which followed the
adoption of the constitution and the development of the cotton-interest
and the expansion of the Republic into a transcontinental power, we fell
under an appalling temptation—the temptation to forget, or to repudiate,
or to refuse to apply to the case of our human brethren in bondage, the
principles which we had once proclaimed as the basis of every rightful
government. The prodigious service rendered to us in this awful moral
emergency by the Declaration of Independence, was, that its public
repetition, at least once every year, in the hearing of vast throngs of
the American people in every portion of the Republic, kept constantly
before our minds, in a form of almost religious sanctity, those few
great ideas as to the dignity of human nature, and the sacredness of
personality, and the indestructible rights of man as mere man, with
which it had so gloriously identified the beginnings of our national
existence. It did at last become very hard for us to listen each year
to the preamble of the Declaration and still remain the owners and
users and catchers of slaves; still harder, to accept the doctrine that
the righteousness and prosperity of slavery was to be accepted as the
dominant policy of the nation. The logic of Calhoun was as flawless
as usual, when he concluded that the chief obstruction in the way of
his system was the preamble of the Declaration of Independence. Had it
not been for the inviolable sacredness given by it to those sweeping
aphorisms about the natural rights of man, it may be doubted whether
Calhoun might not have won over an immense majority of the American
people to the support of his compact and plausible scheme for making
slavery the basis of the Republic. It was the preamble of the Declaration
of Independence which elected Lincoln, which sent forth the Emancipation
Proclamation, which gave victory to Grant, which ratified the Thirteenth
Amendment.

We shall not here attempt to delineate the influence of this state
paper upon mankind in general. Of course, the emergence of the American
Republic as an imposing world-power is a phenomenon which has now for
many years attracted the attention of the human race. Surely, no slight
effect must have resulted from the fact that, among all civilized
peoples, the one American document best known is the Declaration of
Independence, and that thus the spectacle of so vast and beneficent a
political success has been everywhere associated with the assertion of
the natural rights of man. “The doctrines it contained,” says Buckle,
“were not merely welcomed by a majority of the French nation, but even
the government itself was unable to withstand the general feeling. Its
effect in hastening the approach of the French Revolution ... was indeed
most remarkable.” Elsewhere, also, in many lands, among many peoples, it
has been cited again and again as an inspiration to political courage, as
a model for political conduct; and if, as the brilliant historian just
alluded to has affirmed, “that noble Declaration ... ought to be hung up
in the nursery of every king, and blazoned on the porch of every royal
palace,” it is because it has become the classic statement of political
truths which must at last abolish kings altogether, or else teach them to
identify their existence with the dignity and happiness of human nature.




V

THE STRUGGLE FOR INDEPENDENCE


THE PRINCIPLES OF THE REVOLUTION

BY JOSIAH QUINCY

When we speak of the glory of our fathers, we mean not that vulgar renown
to be attained by physical strength; nor yet that higher fame, to be
acquired by intellectual power. Both often exist without lofty thought,
pure intent, or generous purpose. The glory which we celebrate was
strictly of a moral and religious character: righteous as to its ends;
just as to its means.

The American Revolution had its origin neither in ambition, nor avarice,
nor envy, nor in any gross passion; but in the nature and relation of
things, and in the thence-resulting necessity of separation from the
parent state. Its progress was limited by that necessity. Our fathers
displayed great strength and great moderation of purpose. In difficult
times they conducted it with wisdom; in doubtful times, with firmness;
in perilous times, with courage; under oppressive trials, erect; amidst
temptations, unseduced; in the dark hour of danger, fearless; in the
bright hour of prosperity, faithful.

It was not the instant feeling and pressure of despotism that roused
them to resist, but the principle on which that arm was extended. They
could have paid the impositions of the British government, had they
been increased a thousandfold; but payment acknowledged right, and
they spurned the consequences of that acknowledgment. But, above all,
they realized that those burdens, though light in themselves, would to
coming ages—to us, their posterity—be heavy, and probably insupportable.
They preferred to meet the trial in their own times, and to make the
sacrifices in their own persons, that we and our descendants, their
posterity, might reap the harvest and enjoy the increase.

Generous men, exalted patriots, immortal statesmen! For this deep moral
and social affection, for this elevated self-devotion, this bold daring,
the multiplying millions of your posterity, as they spread backward to
the lakes, and from the lakes to the mountains, and from the mountains
to the western waters, shall annually, in all future time, come up to
the temples of the Most High, with song and anthem, and thanksgiving;
with cheerful symphonies and hallelujahs, to repeat your names; to look
steadfastly on the brightness of your glory; to trace its spreading rays
to the points from which they emanate; and to seek in your character and
conduct a practical illustration of public duty in every occurring social
exigency.


THE SONG OF THE CANNON

BY SAM WALTER FOSS

    When the diplomats cease from their capers,
      Their red-tape requests and replies,
    Their shuttlecock battle of papers,
      Their saccharine parley of lies;
    When the plenipotentiary wrangle
      Is tied in a chaos of knots,
    And becomes an unwindable tangle
      Of verbals unmarried to thoughts;
    When they’ve anguished and argued profoundly,
      Asserted, assumed, and averred,
    Then I end up the dialogue roundly
      With my monosyllabical word.

    Not mine in a speech academic,
      No lexicon lingo is mine,
    And in politic parley, polemic,
      I was never created to shine.
    But I speak with some show of decision,
      And I never attempt to be bland,
    I hurl my one word with precision,
      My hearers—they all understand.
    It requires no labored translation,
      Its pith and its import to glean;
    They gather its signification;
      They know at the first what I mean.

    The codes of the learned legations,
      Of form, and of rule, and decree,
    The etiquette books of the nations,—
      They were never intended for me.
    When your case is talked into confusion,
      Then hush you, my diplomat friend,
    Give me just a word in conclusion,
      Let me bring the dispute to an end.
    Ye diplomats, cease to aspire,
      A case that’s appealed to debate,
    It has gone to a court that is higher,
      And I’m the Attorney for Fate.


PAUL REVERE’S RIDE[9]

(April 18, 1775.)

BY HENRY WADSWORTH LONGFELLOW

    Listen, my children, and you shall hear
    Of the midnight ride of Paul Revere,
    On the eighteenth of April, in Seventy-Five:
    Hardly a man is now alive
    Who remembers that famous day and year.

    He said to his friend, “If the British march
    By land or sea from the town to-night,
    Hang a lantern aloft in the belfry arch
    Of the North Church tower as a signal-light,
    One, if by land, and two, if by sea;
    And I on the opposite shore will be,
    Ready to ride and spread the alarm
    Through every Middlesex village and farm,
    For the country folk to be up and to arm.”

    Then he said, good night! and with muffled oar
    Silently rowed to the Charlestown shore,
    Just as the moon rose over the bay,
    Where swinging wide at her moorings lay
    The Somerset, British man-of-war;
    A phantom ship, with each mast and spar
    Across the moon like a prison-bar,
    And a huge black hulk, that was magnified
    By its own reflection in the tide.
    Meanwhile, his friend, through alley and street
    Wanders and watches with eager ears,
    Till in the silence around him he hears
    The muster of men at the barrack door,
    The sound of arms, and the tramp of feet,
    And the measured tread of the grenadiers,
    Marching down to their boats on the shore.

    Then he climbed to the tower of the Old North Church,
    By the wooden stairs, with stealthy tread,
    To the belfry-chamber overhead,
    And startled the pigeons from their perch
    On the somber rafters, that round him made
    Masses and moving shapes of shade,—
    By the trembling ladder, steep and tall,
    To the highest window in the wall,
    Where he paused to listen and look down
    A moment on the roofs of the town,
    And the moonlight flowing over all.

    Beneath, in the churchyard, lay the dead,
    In their night-encampment on the hill,
    Wrapped in silence so deep and still,
    That he could hear, like a sentinel’s tread,
    The watchful night-wind, as it went
    Creeping along from tent to tent,
    And seeming to whisper, “All is well!”
    A moment only he feels the spell
    Of the place and the hour, and the secret dread
    Of the lonely belfry and the dead;
    For suddenly all his thoughts are bent
    On a shadowy something far away,
    Where the river widens to meet the bay,
    A line of black that bends and floats
    On the rising tide, like a bridge of boats.

    Meanwhile, impatient to mount and ride,
    Booted and spurred, with a heavy stride
    On the opposite shore walked Paul Revere.
    Now he patted his horse’s side,
    Now gazed at the landscape far and near,
    Then, impetuous, stamped the earth,
    And turned and tightened his saddle-girth;
    But mostly he watched with eager search
    The belfry-tower of the Old North Church,
    As it rose above the graves on the hill,
    Lonely, and spectral, and somber and still.
    And lo! as he looks, on the belfry’s height
    A glimmer, and then a gleam of light!
    He springs to the saddle, the bridle he turns,
    But lingers and gazes, till full on his sight
    A second lamp in the belfry burns!
    A hurry of hoofs in a village street,
    A shape in the moonlight, a bulk in the dark,
    And beneath, from the pebbles, in passing, a spark
    Struck out by a steed flying fearless and fleet:
    That was all! And yet, through the gloom and the light,
    The fate of a nation was riding that night;
    And the spark struck out by that steed, in his flight,
    Kindled the land into flame with its heat.

    He has left the village and mounted the steep,
    And beneath him, tranquil and broad and deep
    Is the Mystic, meeting the ocean tides;
    And under the alders, that skirt its edge,
    Now soft on the sand, now loud on the ledge,
    Is heard the tramp of his steed as he rides.

    It was twelve by the village clock
    When he crossed the bridge into Medford town.
    He heard the crowing of the cock,
    And the barking of the farmer’s dog,
    And felt the damp of the river fog,
    That rises after the sun goes down.

    It was one by the village clock,
    When he rode into Lexington.
    He saw the gilded weathercock
    Swim in the moonlight as he passed,
    And the meeting-house windows, blank and bare,
    Gaze at him with a spectral glare,
    As if they already stood aghast
    At the bloody work they would look upon.

    It was two by the village clock,
    When he came to the bridge in Concord town,
    He heard the bleating of the flock,
    And the twitter of birds among the trees,
    And felt the breath of the morning breeze
    Blowing over the meadows brown.
    And one was safe and asleep in his bed
    Who at the bridge would be first to fall,
    Who that day would be lying dead,
    Pierced by a British musket-ball.
    You know the rest. In the books you have read,
    How the British Regulars fired and fled,—
    How the farmers gave them ball for ball,
    From behind each fence and farm-yard wall,
    Chasing the red-coats down the lane,
    Then crossing the fields to emerge again
    Under the trees at the turn of the road,
    And only pausing to fire and load.

    So through the night rode Paul Revere;
    And so through the night went his cry of alarm
    To every Middlesex village and farm,—
    A cry of defiance and not of fear,
    A voice in the darkness, a knock at the door,
    And a word that shall echo forevermore!
    For, borne on the night-wind of the Past,
    Through all our history, to the last,
    In the hour of darkness and peril and need,
    The people will waken and listen to hear
    The hurrying hoof-beats of that steed,
    And the midnight message of Paul Revere.


HYMN

BY RALPH WALDO EMERSON

(_This poem was written to be sung at the completion of the Concord
Monument, April 19, 1836._)

    By the rude bridge that arched the flood,
      Their flag to April’s breeze unfurled,
    Here once the embattled farmers stood,
      And fired the shot heard round the world.

    The foe long since in silence slept;
      Alike the conqueror silent sleeps;
    And Time the ruined bridge has swept
      Down the dark stream which seaward creeps.

    On this green bank, by this soft stream,
      We set to-day a votive stone;
    That memory may their deed redeem
      When, like our sires, our sons are gone.

    Spirit, that made those heroes dare
      To die, or leave their children free,
    Bid Time and Nature gently spare
      The shaft we raise to them and thee.


A SONG FOR LEXINGTON

BY ROBERT KELLEY WEEKS

    The spring came earlier on
    Than usual that year;
    The shadiest snow was gone,
    The slowest brook was clear,
    And warming in the sun
    Shy flowers began to peer.

    ’Twas more like middle May,
    The earth so seemed to thrive,
    That Nineteenth April day
    Of Seventeen Seventy-Five;
    Winter was well away,
    New England was alive!

    Alive and sternly glad!
    Her doubts were with the snow;
    Her courage, long forbade,
    Ran full to overflow;
    And every hope she had
    Began to bud and grow.

    She rose betimes that morn,
    For there was work to do;
    A planting, not of corn,
    Of what she hardly knew,—
    Blessings for men unborn;
    And well she did it, too!

    With open hand she stood,
    And sowed for all the years,
    And watered it with blood,
    And watered it with tears,
    The seed of quickening food
    For both the hemispheres.

    This was the planting done
    That April morn of fame;
    Honor to every one
    To that seed-field that came!
    Honor to Lexington,
    Our first immortal name!


THE REVOLUTIONARY ALARM

BY GEORGE BANCROFT

Darkness closed upon the country and upon the town, but it was no night
for sleep. Heralds on swift relays of horses transmitted the war-message
from hand to hand, till village repeated it to village; the sea to
the backwoods; the plains to the highlands; and it was never suffered
to droop till it had been borne North and South, and East and West,
throughout the land.

It spread over the bays that receive the Saco and the Penobscot. Its loud
reveille broke the rest of the trappers of New Hampshire, and, ringing
like bugle-notes from peak to peak, overleapt the Green Mountains, swept
onward to Montreal, and descended the ocean river, till the responses
were echoed from the cliffs of Quebec. The hills along the Hudson told to
one another the tale.

As the summons hurried to the south, it was one day at New York; in one
more at Philadelphia; the next it lighted a watchfire at Baltimore;
thence it waked an answer at Annapolis. Crossing the Potomac near Mount
Vernon, it was sent forward without a halt to Williamsburg. It traversed
the Dismal Swamp to Nansemond, along the route of the first emigrants to
North Carolina. It moved onwards and still onwards, through boundless
groves of evergreen, to New-Berne and to Wilmington.

“For God’s sake, forward it by night and by day,” wrote Cornelius
Harnett, by the express which sped for Brunswick. Patriots of South
Carolina caught up its tones at the border and despatched it to
Charleston, and through pines and palmettos and moss-clad live-oaks,
farther to the south, till it resounded among the New England settlements
beyond Savannah.

The Blue Ridge took up the voice, and made it heard from one end to the
other of the valley of Virginia. The Alleghanies, as they listened,
opened their barriers, that the “loud call” might pass through to the
hardy riflemen on the Holston, the Watauga, and the French Broad. Ever
renewing its strength, powerful enough even to create a commonwealth,
it breathed its inspiring word to the first settlers of Kentucky; so
that hunters who made their halt in the matchless valley of the Elkhorn
commemorated the 19th day of April, 1775, by naming their encampment
_Lexington_.

With one impulse the colonies sprung to arms; with one spirit they
pledged themselves to each other “to be ready for the extreme event.”
With one heart the continent cried, “Liberty or Death!”


THE VOLUNTEER

BY ELBRIDGE JEFFERSON CUTLER

    “At dawn,” he said, “I bid them all farewell,
      To go where bugles call and rifles gleam.”
    And with the restless thought asleep he fell,
      And glided into dream.

    A great hot plain from sea to mountain spread,—
      Through it a level river slowly drawn;
    He moved with a vast crowd, and at its head
      Streamed banners like the dawn.

    There came a blinding flash, a deafening roar,
      And dissonant cries of triumph and dismay;
    Blood trickled down the river’s reedy shore,
      And with the dead he lay.

    The morn broke in upon his solemn dreams,
      And still with steady pulse and deepening eye,
    “Where bugles call,” he said, “and rifles gleam,
      I follow, though I die!”

    Wise youth! By few is glory’s wreath attained;
      But death, or late or soon, awaiteth all,
    To fight in Freedom’s cause is something gained,—
      And nothing lost to fall.


TICONDEROGA

(May 10, 1775.)

BY V. B. WILSON

    The cold, gray light of the dawning
      On old Carillon falls,
    And dim in the mist of the morning
      Stand the grim old fortress walls.
    No sound disturbs the stillness
      Save the cataract’s mellow roar,
    Silent as death is the fortress,
      Silent the misty shore.

    But up from the wakening waters
      Comes the cool, fresh morning breeze
    Lifting the banner of Britain,
      And whispering to the trees
    Of the swift gliding boats on the waters
      That are nearing the fog-shrouded land,
    With the old Green Mountain Lion,
      And his daring patriot band.

    But the sentinel at the postern
      Heard not the whisper low;
    He is dreaming of the banks of the Shannon
      As he walks on his beat to and fro,
    Of the starry eyes in Green Erin
      That were dim when he marched away,
    And a tear down his bronzed cheek courses,
      ’Tis the first for many a day.

    A sound breaks the misty stillness,
      And quickly he glances around;
    Through the mist, forms like towering giants
      Seem rising out of the ground;
    A challenge, the firelock flashes,
      A sword cleaves the quivering air,
    And the sentry lies dead by the postern,
      Blood staining his bright yellow hair.

    Then, with a shout that awakens
      All the echoes of hillside and glen,
    Through the low, frowning gate of the fortress,
      Sword in hand, rush the Green Mountain men.
    The scarce wakened troops of the garrison
      Yield up their trust pale with fear;
    And down comes the bright British banner,
      And out rings a Green Mountain cheer.

    Flushed with pride, the whole eastern heavens
      With crimson and gold are ablaze;
    And up springs the sun in his splendor
      And flings down his arrowy rays,
    Bathing in sunlight the fortress,
      Turning to gold the grim walls,
    While louder and clearer and higher
      Rings the song of the waterfalls.

    Since the taking of Ticonderoga
      A century has rolled away;
    But with pride the nation remembers
      That glorious morning in May.
    And the cataract’s silvery music
      Forever the story tells,
    Of the capture of old Carillon,
      The chime of the silver bells.


WARREN’S ADDRESS

(At the Battle of Bunker Hill.)

BY JOHN PIERPONT

    Stand! the ground’s your own, my braves!
    Will ye give it up to slaves?
    Will ye look for greener graves?
      Hope ye mercy still?
    What’s the mercy despots feel?
    Hear it in that battle peal!
    Read it on yon bristling steel!
      Ask it,—ye who will!

    Fear ye foes who kill for hire?
    Will ye to your homes retire?
    Look behind you! they’re afire,
      And, before you, see
    Who have done it!—From the vale
    On they come!—and will ye quail?—
    Leaden rain and leaden hail
      Let their welcome be!

    In the God of battles trust!
    Die we may,—and die we must;
    But oh, where can dust to dust
      Be consigned so well,
    As where Heaven its dews shall shed
    On the martyred patriot’s bed,
    And the rocks shall raise their head
      Of his deeds to tell!


“THE LONELY BUGLE GRIEVES”

(From an “Ode on the Celebration of the Battle of Bunker Hill, June 17,
1825.”)

BY GRENVILLE MELLEN

        The trump hath blown,
      And now upon that reeking hill
    Slaughter rides screaming on the vengeful ball;
      While with terrific signal shrill,
    The vultures, from their bloody eyries flown,
        Hang o’er them like a pall.
      Now deeper roll the maddening drums,
      And the mingling host like ocean heaves:
        While from the midst a horrid wailing comes,
    And high above the fight the lonely bugle grieves!


THE BATTLE OF BUNKER HILL

(From “Battles of the American Revolution.”)

The advance of the British army was like a solemn pageant in its steady
headway, and like a parade for inspection in the completeness of its
outfit. It moved forward as if by the very force of its closely-knit
columns it must sweep away every barrier in its path. Elated, sure of
victory, with firm step, already quickened as the space of separation
lessens, there is left but a few rods of interval, a few steps only,
and the work is done! But right in their way was a calm, intense, and
energizing love of liberty, represented by men of the same blood and of
equal daring.

A few shots impulsively fired, but quickly restrained, drew an innocent
fire from the advancing column. But the pale men behind the scant
defense, obedient to one will, answered not.... The left wing is near
the redoubt. It surely is nothing to surmount a bank of fresh earth but
six feet high; and its sands and clods can almost be counted, it is so
near, so easy, _sure_! Short, crisp, and earnest, low-toned, but felt as
an electric pulse from redoubt to river, are the words of a single man,
Prescott. Warren, by his side, repeats them. The word runs quickly along
the impatient line. The eager fingers give back from the waiting trigger.
“Steady, men! Wait until you see the white of the eye! Not a shot sooner!
Aim at the handsome coats! Aim at the waistbands! Pick off the officers!
Wait for the word, every man! Steady!”

Already those plain men, so patient, can count the buttons, can read
the emblems on the belt-plate, can recognize the officers and men whom
they have seen at parade on Boston Common. Features grow more and more
distinct. The silence is awful! These men seem breathless,—dead! It
comes, that word, the word waited for,—“Fire!” That word had waited
behind the center and the left wing, where Putnam watched, as it lingered
behind breastwork and redoubt. Sharp, clear, and deadly, in tone and
essence, it rings forth,—“Fire!”

From redoubt to river, along the whole sweep of devouring flame,
the forms of men wither as in a furnace heat. The whole front goes
down. For an instant the chirp of the grasshopper and the cricket in
the freshly-cut grass might almost be heard; then the groans of the
suffering; then the shouts of impatient yeomen, who leap over obstacles
to pursue until recalled to silence and to duty.

Staggering but reviving, grand in the glory of their manhood, heroic in
the fortitude which restores self-possession, with a steady step, in the
face of fire and over the bodies of their dead, the remnant dare to renew
battle. Again the deadly volley; and the shattered columns, in spite of
entreaty or command, move back to the place of starting, and the first
shock of battle is over.

A lifetime when it is past seems but as a moment! A moment sometimes is
as a lifetime. Onset and repulse! Three hundred lifetimes ended in twenty
minutes!


THE MARYLAND BATTALION

BY JOHN WILLIAMSON PALMER

    Spruce Macaronis, and pretty to see,
    Tidy and dapper and gallant were we;
    Blooded, fine gentlemen, proper and tall,
    Bold in a fox-hunt and gay at a ball;
    Prancing soldados so martial and bluff,
    Billets for bullets, in scarlet and buff—
    But our cockades were clasped with a mother’s low prayer,
    And the sweethearts that braided the sword-knots were fair.

    There was grummer of drums humming hoarse in the hills,
    And the bugle sang fanfaron down by the mills;
    By Flatbush the bagpipes were droning amain,
    And keen cracked the rifles in Martense’s lane;
    For the Hessians were flecking the hedges with red,
    And the grenadiers’ tramp marked the roll of the dead.

    Three to one, flanked and rear, flashed the files of St. George.
    The fierce gleam of their steel as the glow of a forge.
    The brutal boom-boom of their swart cannoneers
    Was sweet music compared with the taunt of their cheers—
    For the brunt of their onset, our crippled array,
    And the light of God’s leading gone out in the fray!

    Oh, the rout on the left and the tug on the right!
    The mad plunge of the charge and the wreck of the flight!
    When the cohorts of Grant held stout Stirling at strain,
    And the mongrels of Hesse went tearing the slain;
    When at Freeke’s Mill the flumes and the sluices ran red,
    And the dead choked the dyke and the marsh choked the dead!

    “O Stirling, good Stirling! how long must we wait?
    Shall the shout of your trumpet unleash us too late?
    Have you never a dash for brave Mordecai Gist,
    With his heart in his throat, and his blade in his fist?
    Are we good for no more than to prance in a ball,
    When the drums beat the charge and the clarions call?”

    Tralara! Tralara! Now praise we the Lord
    For the clang of His call and the flash of His sword!
    Tralara! Tralara! Now forward to die;
    For the banner, hurrah! and for sweethearts, good-by!
    “Four hundred wild lads!” Maybe so. I’ll be bound
    ’Twill be easy to count us, face up, on the ground.
    If we hold the road open, tho’ Death take the toll,
    We’ll be missed on parade when the States call the roll—
    When the flags meet in peace and the guns are at rest,
    And fair Freedom is singing Sweet Home in the West.


THE BATTLE OF TRENTON

(Dec. 26, 1776.)

ANONYMOUS AND CONTEMPORARY

    On Christmas-day in seventy-six,
    Our ragged troops with bayonets fixed,
      For Trenton march away.
    The Delaware see! the boats below!
    The light obscured by hail and snow!
      But no signs of dismay.

    Our object was the Hessian band,
    That dared invade fair freedom’s land,
      And quarter in that place.
    Great Washington he led us on,
    Whose streaming flag, in storm or sun,
      Had never known disgrace.

    In silent march we passed the night,
    Each soldier panting for the fight,
      Though quite benumbed with frost.
    Greene, on the left, at six began,
    The right was led by Sullivan,
      Who ne’er a moment lost.

    The pickets stormed, the alarm was spread,
    The rebels risen from the dead
      Were marching into town.
    Some scampered here, some scampered there,
    And some for action did prepare;
      But soon their arms laid down.

    Twelve hundred servile miscreants,
    With all their colors, guns, and tents,
      Were trophies of the day.
    The frolic o’er, the bright canteen
    In center, front, and rear was seen
      Driving fatigue away.

    Now brothers of the patriot bands,
    Let’s sing deliverance from the hands
      Of arbitrary sway,
    And as our life is but a span,
    Let’s touch the tankard while we can,
      In memory of that day.


COLUMBIA

BY TIMOTHY DWIGHT

(Written during the author’s services as an army chaplain, 1777-78.)

    Columbia, Columbia, to glory arise,
    The queen of the world, and the child of the skies;
    Thy genius commands thee; with rapture behold,
    While ages on ages thy splendor unfold!
    Thy reign is the last, and the noblest of time,
    Most fruitful thy soil, most inviting thy clime;
    Let the crimes of the East ne’er encrimson thy name,
    Be freedom, and science, and virtue thy fame.

    To conquest and slaughter let Europe aspire;
    Whelm nations in blood, and wrap cities in fire;
    Thy heroes the rights of mankind shall defend,
    And triumph pursue them, and glory attend;
    A world is thy realm: for a world be thy laws,
    Enlarged as thine empire, and just as thy cause;
    On Freedom’s broad basis, that empire shall rise,
    Extend with the main, and dissolve with the skies.

    Fair science her gates to thy sons shall unbar,
    And the east shall with morn hide the beams of her star.
    New bards, and new sages, unrivaled shall soar
    To fame unextinguished, when time is no more;
    To thee, the last refuge of virtue designed,
    Shall fly, from all nations the best of mankind;
    Here, grateful to heaven, with transport shall bring
    Their incense, more fragrant than odors of spring.

    Nor less shall thy fair ones to glory ascend,
    And genius and beauty in harmony blend;
    The graces of form shall awake pure desire,
    And the charms of the soul ever cherish the fire;
    Their sweetness unmingled, their manners refined,
    The virtue’s bright image, instamped on the mind,
    With peace and soft rapture shall teach life to glow,
    And light up a smile in the aspect of woe.

    Thy fleets to all regions thy power shall display,
    The nations admire and the ocean obey;
    Each shore to thy glory its tribute unfold,
    And the East and the South yield their spices and gold.
    As the day-spring unbounded, thy splendor shall flow,
    And earth’s little kingdoms before thee shall bow;
    While the ensigns of union, in triumph unfurled,
    Hush the tumult of war and give peace to the world.

    Thus, as down a lone valley, with cedars o’erspread,
    From war’s dread confusion I pensively strayed,
    The gloom from the face of fair heaven retired;
    The winds ceased to murmur; the thunders expired;
    Perfumes as of Eden flowed sweetly along,
    And a voice as of angels enchantingly sung:
    “Columbia, Columbia, to glory arise,
    The queen of the world, and the child of the skies.”


THE FIGHTING PARSON[10]

BY HENRY AMES BLOOD

    It was brave young Parson Webster,
      His father a parson before him,
    And here in this town of Temple
      The people used to adore him;
    And the minute-men from all quarters
      That morning had grounded their arms
    ’Round the meeting-house on the hilltop,
      Looking down on Temple farms.

    Dear to the Puritan soldier
      The food which his meeting-house offered,
    And especially dear the fine manna
      Which the young Temple minister proffered;
    And believe as he might in his firelock,
      His bayonet, or his sword,
    The minute-man’s heart was hopeless
      If not filled with the strength of the Lord.

    The minute-man ever and always
      Waited the signal of warning,
    And he never dreamed in the evening
      Where his prayers would ascend the next morning;
    And they even said that the parson
      Undoubtedly preached his best
    When his musket stood in the pulpit
      Ready for use with the rest.

    Sad was the minister’s message,
      And many a heart beat faster,
    And many a soft eye glistened,
      Whenever the voice of the pastor
    Dwelt on the absent dear ones
      Who had followed their country’s call
    To the distant camp, or the battle,
      Or the frowning fortress-wall.

    And now when near to “fifteenthly,”
      And the urchins thought of their luncheon,
    And into the half-curtained windows
      Hotter and hotter the sun shone,
    And the redbreast dozed in the branches,
      And the crow on the pine tree’s top,
    And the squirrel was lost in his musings,
      The sermon came to a stop.

    For sharp on the turnpike the clatter
      Of galloping hoofs resounded,
    And the granite ring of the roadway
      Louder and louder sounded;
    And now no longer the redbreast
      Was inclined to be dull that day,
    And now no longer the sexton
      Slept in his usual way.

    But all sprang up on the instant,
      And the widest of eyes grew wider,
    While on towards the porch, like a tempest,
      Came sweeping the horse and its rider;
    And now from the din of the hoof-beats
      A trumpet voice leapt out,
    And, tingling to its rafters,
      The church was alive with the shout,—

    “Burgoyne’s at Ticonderoga:
      Would you have the old fort surrender?”
    “No, no!” cried the parson; “New Hampshire
      Will send the last man to defend her!”
    But before he could shoulder his musket
      A Tory sang up from below,
    “I hear a great voice out of heaven, sir,
      Warning us not to go.”

    Quick from the pulpit descending,
      With the agile step of a lion,—
    “The voice you hear is from hell, sir!”
      Replied the young servant of Zion.
    And out through the open doorway,
      And on past the porch he strode,
    And the congregation came after,
      And gathered beside the road.

    Sadly enough the colonel,
      The minute-men all arraying,
    From the dusty cocked hat of the rider
      Drew the lots for going or staying.
    Then waving his hat as he took it,
      And putting the spurs to his mare,
    The stranger rode off to New Ipswich
      In a cheering that rent the air.

    Worse than the shock of battle,
      Now came the sad leave-taking.
    And to mothers and maids and matrons
      The deepest of grief and heart-aching;
    And far on the road through the mountains
      Whence the rider had just come,
    They followed the minute-men marching
      To the sound of the fife and the drum.

    Long dead have they been who sat there
      At that feast of things eternal—
    Long dead the laymen, the deacons,
      The lawyer, the doctor, the colonel;
    Long dead the youths and the maidens,
      And long on the graves of all
    Have the summers and the winters
      Their leaves and their snows let fall.

    But whenever I come to the churchyard,
      Where, by the side of the pastor,
    They afterwards laid the colonel,
      His friend in success and disaster,
    I see again on the Common
      The minute-men all in array,
    And again I behold the departure,
      The pastor leading the way.

    And I think of the scene when his comrades
      Brought back the young pastor, dying,
    To his home in the house of the colonel;
      And how, on his death-bed lying,
    He took the hand that was offered,
      And, gazing far into the night,
    Whispered, “I die for my country—
      I have fought—I have fought the good fight.”


THE SARATOGA LESSON

(From an Address delivered October 17, 1877.)

BY GEORGE WILLIAM CURTIS

The drama of the Revolution opened in New England, culminated in New
York, and closed in Virginia. It was a happy fortune that the three
colonies which represented the various territorial sections of the
settled continent were each, in turn, the chief seat of war. The common
sacrifice, the common struggle, the common triumph, tended to weld
them locally, politically, and morally together. Doubtless there were
conflicts of provincial pride and jealousy and suspicion. In every great
crisis of war, however, there was a common impulse and devotion, and the
welfare of the continent obliterated provincial lines.

It is by the few heaven-piercing peaks, not by the confused mass of
upland, that we measure the height of the Andes, of the Alps, of the
Himalaya. It is by Joseph Warren not by Benjamin Church, by John Jay
not by Sir John Johnson, by George Washington not by Benedict Arnold,
that we test the quality of the Revolutionary character. The voice of
Patrick Henry from the mountains answered that of James Otis by the sea.
Paul Revere’s lantern shone along through the valley of the Hudson,
and flashed along the cliffs of the Blue Ridge. The scattering volley
of Lexington green swelled to the triumphant thunder of Saratoga, and
the reverberation of Burgoyne’s falling arms in New York shook those of
Cornwallis in Virginia from his hands. Doubts, jealousies, prejudices,
were merged in one common devotion. The union of the colonies to secure
liberty, foretold the union of the States to maintain it, and wherever we
stand on Revolutionary fields, or inhale the sweetness of Revolutionary
memories, we tread the ground and breathe the air of invincible national
union.

So, upon this famous and decisive field, let every unworthy feeling
perish! Here, to the England that we fought let us now, grown great and
strong with a hundred years, hold out the hand of fellowship and peace!
Here, where the English Burgoyne, in the very moment of his bitter
humiliation generously pledged George Washington, let us, in our high
hour of triumph, of power, and of hope, pledge the queen! Here, in the
grave of brave and unknown foemen, may mutual jealousies and doubts
and animosities lie buried forever! Henceforth, revering their common
glorious traditions, may England, and America press forward side by side,
in noble and inspiring rivalry to promote the welfare of man!

Fellow-citizens, with the story of Burgoyne’s surrender, the
Revolutionary glory of the State of New York, still fresh in our
memories, I am glad that the hallowed spot on which we stand compels us
to remember not only the imperial State, but the national Commonwealth,
whose young hands here together struck the blow, and on whose older
head descends the ample benediction of the victory. On yonder height,
a hundred years ago, Virginia and Pennsylvania lay encamped. Beyond,
and further to the north, watched New Hampshire and Vermont. Here, in
the wooded uplands at the south, stood New Jersey and New York, while
across the river to the east, Connecticut and Massachusetts closed the
triumphant line. Here was the symbol of the Revolution, a common cause, a
common strife, a common triumph; the cause, not of a class, but of human
nature; the triumph, not of a colony, but of united America.

And we who stand here proudly remembering, we who have seen Virginia and
New York, the North and the South, more bitterly hostile than the armies
whose battles shook this ground, we who mutually proved in deadlier
conflict the constancy and courage of all the States, which, proud to be
peers, yet own no master but their united selves, we renew our heart’s
imperishable devotion to the common American faith, the common American
pride, the common American glory! Here America stood and triumphed. Here
Americans stand and bless their memory. And here, for a thousand years,
many grateful generations of Americans come to rehearse the glorious
story, and to rejoice in a supreme and benignant American nationality!


THE SURRENDER OF BURGOYNE

BY JAMES WATTS DE PEYSTER

(Extract from Centennial Poem, read October 17, 1877.)

    Brothers, this spot is holy! Look around!
      Before us flows our memory’s sacred river,
    Whose banks are Freedom’s shrines. This grassy mound,
      The altar, on whose height the Mighty Giver
    Gave Independence to our country; when,
    Thanks to its brave, enduring, patient men,
    The invading host was brought to bay, and laid
    Beneath “Old Glory’s” new-born folds, the blade,
    The brazen thunder-throats, the pomp of War,
    And England’s yoke, broken forevermore.
    ...
    Yes, on this spot,—thanks to our gracious God,—
    Where last in conscious arrogance it trod,
    Defiled, as captives, Burgoyne’s conquered horde;
    Below, their general yielded up his sword;
    There, to our flag bowed England’s, battle-torn;
    Where now we stand, the United States was born.


THE SARATOGA MONUMENT BEGUN

BY HORATIO SEYMOUR

(From Address delivered October 17, 1877.)

One hundred years ago, on this spot, American independence was made
a great fact in the history of nations. Until the surrender of the
British army under Burgoyne, the Declaration of Independence was but
a declaration. It was a patriotic purpose asserted in bold words by
brave men, who pledged for its maintenance their lives, their fortunes,
and their sacred honor. But here it was made a fact by virtue of armed
force. It had been regarded by the world merely as an act of defiance,
but it was now seen that it contained the germs of a government which the
event we celebrate made one of the powers of the earth. Here rebellion
was made revolution. Upon this ground, that which had in the eye of the
law been treason, became triumphant patriotism. At the break of day, in
the judgment of the world, our fathers were rebels. When the echoes of
the evening gun died away along this valley, they were patriots who had
rescued their country from wrong and outrage. We had passed through the
baptism of blood, and gained a name among the nations of the earth.

Before the Revolution the people of the several colonies held but
little intercourse. They were estranged from each other by distance, by
sectional prejudices, by differences of lineage and religious creeds. But
when the men of Virginia went to Massachusetts to rescue Boston, when
the men of the East and South battled side by side with those from the
Middle States, when Greene and Lincoln went to the relief of the Southern
colonies, all prejudices not only died away, but more than fraternal love
animated every patriotic heart from the bleak forests of New England to
the milder airs of Georgia. And now that a hundred years have passed, and
our country has become great beyond the wildest dreams of our fathers,
will not the story of their sufferings revive in the breast of all the
love of our country, of our common country, and all who live within its
boundaries?

It was the most remarkable fact of the Revolutionary War and of
the formation of state and national governments, that although the
colonists were of different lineages and languages, living under
different climates, with varied pursuits and forms of labor, cut off
from intercourse by distance, yet, in spite of all these obstacles to
accord, they were from the outset animated by common views, feelings, and
purposes. When the independence was gained, they were able, after a few
weeks spent in consultation, to form the constitution under which we have
lived for nearly one hundred years. There can be no stronger proof that
American institutions were born and shaped by American necessities. This
fact should give us new faith in the lasting nature of our government.

Monuments make as well as mark the civilization of a people. The
surrender of Burgoyne marks the dividing line between two conditions of
our country: the one the colonial period of dependence, and the other the
day from which it stood full-armed and victorious here, endowed with a
boldness to assert its independence, and endowed with a wisdom to frame
its own system of government. We are told that during more than twenty
centuries of war and bloodshed, only fifteen battles have been decisive
of lasting results. The contest of Saratoga is one of them. Shall not
some suitable structure recall this fact to the public mind? Neither
France, nor Britain, nor Germany could spare the statues or works of art
which keep alive the memory of patriotic services or of personal virtues.
Such silent teachers of all that ennobles men, have taught their lessons
through the darkest ages, and have done much to save society from sinking
into utter decay and degradation. If Greece or Rome had left no memorials
of private virtues or public greatness, the progress of civilization
would have been slow and feeble. If their crumbling remains should be
swept away, the world would mourn the loss, not only to learning and the
arts, but to virtue and patriotism. It concerns the honor and welfare of
the American people that this spot should be marked by some structure
which should recall its history and animate all, who look upon it, by its
grand teachings. No people ever held lasting power or greatness who did
not reverence the virtues of their fathers, or who did not show forth
this reverence by material and striking testimonials.

Let us, then, build here, a lasting monument, which shall tell of our
gratitude to those who, through suffering and sacrifice, wrought out the
independence of our country.


MOLLY MAGUIRE AT MONMOUTH

(June 28, 1778.)

BY WILLIAMS COLLINS

    On the bloody field of Monmouth
      Flashed the guns of Greene and Wayne,
    Fiercely roared the tide of battle,
      Thick the sward was heaped with slain.
    Foremost, facing death and danger,
      Hessian, horse, and grenadier,
    In the vanguard, fiercely fighting,
      Stood an Irish Cannonier.

    Loudly roared his iron cannon,
      Mingling ever in the strife,
    And beside him, firm and daring,
      Stood his faithful Irish wife.
    Of her bold contempt of danger
      Greene and Lee’s brigades could tell,
    Every one knew “Captain Molly,”
      And the army loved her well.

    Surged the roar of battle round them,
      Swiftly flew the iron hail,
    Forward dashed a thousand bayonets,
      That lone battery to assail.
    From the foeman’s foremost columns
      Swept a furious fusillade,
    Mowing down the massed battalions
      In the ranks of Greene’s Brigade.

    Fast and faster worked the gunner,
      Soiled with powder, blood and dust,
    English bayonets shone before him,
      Shot and shell around him burst;
    Still he fought with reckless daring,
      Stood and manned her long and well,
    Till at last the gallant fellow
      Dead—beside his cannon fell.

    With a bitter cry of sorrow,
      And a dark and angry frown,
    Looked that band of gallant patriots
      At their gunner stricken down.
    “Fall back, comrades, it is folly
      Thus to strive against the foe.”
    “No! not so,” cried Irish Molly;
      “We can strike another blow.”

    Quickly leaped she to the cannon,
      In her fallen husband’s place,
    Sponged and rammed it fast and steady,
      Fired it in the foeman’s face.
    Flashed another ringing volley,
      Roared another from the gun;
    “Boys, hurrah!” cried gallant Molly,
      “For the flag of Washington.”

    Greene’s Brigade, though shorn and shattered,
      Slain and bleeding half their men,
    When they heard that Irish slogan,
      Turned and charged the foe again.
    Knox and Wayne and Morgan rally,
      To the front they forward wheel,
    And before their rushing onset
      Clinton’s English columns reel.

    Still the cannon’s voice in anger
      Rolled and rattled o’er the plain,
    Till there lay in swarms around it
      Mangled heaps of Hessian slain.
    “Forward! charge them with the bayonet!”
      ’Twas the voice of Washington,
    And there burst a fiery greeting
      From the Irish woman’s gun.

    Monckton falls; against his columns
      Leap the troops of Wayne and Lee,
    And before their reeking bayonets
      Clinton’s red battalions flee.
    Morgan’s rifles, fiercely flashing,
      Thin the foe’s retreating ranks,
    And behind them onward dashing
      Ogden hovers on their flanks.

    Fast they fly, these boasting Britons,
      Who in all their glory came,
    With their brutal Hessian hirelings
      To wipe out our country’s name.
    Proudly floats the starry banner,
      Monmouth’s glorious field is won,
    And in triumph Irish Molly,
      Stands beside her smoking gun.


THE SOUTH IN THE REVOLUTION

BY ROBERT YOUNG HAYNE

If there be one State in the Union, and I say it not in a boasting
spirit, that may challenge comparison with any other, for an uniform,
zealous, ardent, and uncalculating devotion to the Union, that State is
South Carolina.

From the very commencement of the Revolution, up to this hour, there is
no sacrifice, however great, she has not cheerfully made, no service
she has even hesitated to perform. She has adhered to you, in your
prosperity; but in your adversity she has clung to you with more than
filial affection. No matter what was the condition of her domestic
affairs, though deprived of her resources, divided by parties, or
surrounded by difficulties, the call of the country has been to her as
the voice of God. Domestic discord ceased at the sound; every man became
at once reconciled to his brethren, and the sons of Carolina were all
seen crowding together to the temple, bringing their gifts to the altar
of their common country.

What was the conduct of the South during the Revolution? I honor New
England for her conduct in that glorious struggle. But, great as is the
praise which belongs to her, I think at least equal honor is due to the
South. They espoused the quarrel of their brethren with a generous zeal
which did not suffer them to stop to calculate their interest in the
dispute. Favorites of the mother-country, possessed of neither ships nor
seamen to create a commercial rivalship, they might have found, in their
situation, a guarantee that their trade would be forever fostered and
protected by Great Britain. But, trampling on all considerations, either
of interest or of safety, they rushed into the conflict; and, fighting
for principle, periled all in the sacred cause of freedom. Never was
there exhibited in the history of the world higher examples of noble
daring, dreadful suffering, and heroic endurance than by the Whigs of
Carolina during the Revolution! The whole state, from the mountains to
the sea, was overrun by an overwhelming force of the enemy. The fruits of
industry perished on the spot where they were produced, or were consumed
by the foe. The “Plains of Carolina” drank up the most precious blood
of her citizens. Black and smoking ruins marked the places which had
been the habitations of her children. Driven from their homes, into the
gloomy and almost impenetrable swamps, even there the spirit of liberty
survived, and South Carolina, sustained by the example of her Sumters
and her Marions, proved, by her conduct, that, though her soil might be
overrun, the spirit of her people was invincible.


THE SONG OF MARION’S MEN

(1780-1781.)

BY WILLIAM CULLEN BRYANT

_While the British Army held South Carolina, Marion and Sumter gathered
bands of partisans and waged a vigorous guerilla warfare most harassing
and destructive to the invader._

    Our band is few, but true and tried,
      Our leader frank and bold;
    The British soldier trembles
      When Marion’s name is told.
    Our fortress is the good greenwood
      Our tent the cypress-tree;
    We know the forest round us,
      As seamen know the sea.
    We know its walls of thorny vines,
      Its glades of reedy grass,
    Its safe and silent islands
      Within the dark morass.

    Wo to the English soldiery,
      That little dread us near!
    On them shall light at midnight
      A strange and sudden fear:
    When, waking to their tents on fire
      They grasp their arms in vain,
    And they who stand to face us
      Are beat to earth again.
    And they who fly in terror deem
      A mighty host behind,
    And hear the tramp of thousands
      Upon the hollow wind.

    Then sweet the hour that brings release
      From danger and from toil;
    We talk the battle over,
      And share the battle’s spoil.
    The woodland rings with laugh and shout,
      As if a hunt were up,
    And woodland flowers are gathered
      To crown the soldier’s cup.
    With merry songs we mock the wind
      That in the pine-top grieves,
    And slumber long and sweetly
      On beds of oaken leaves.

    Well knows the fair and friendly moon
      The band that Marion leads—
    The glitter of their rifles,
      The scampering of their steeds.
    ’Tis life to guide the fiery barb
      Across the moonlight plain;
    ’Tis life to feel the night-wind
      That lifts his tossing mane.
    A moment in the British camp—
      A moment—and away
    Back to the pathless forest,
      Before the peep of day.

    Grave men there are by broad Santee,
      Grave men with hoary hairs;
    Their hearts are all with Marion,
      For Marion are their prayers.
    And lovely ladies greet our band
      With kindliest welcoming,
    With smiles like those of summer,
      And tears like those of spring.
    For them we wear these trusty arms,
      And lay them down no more
    Till we have driven down the Briton,
      Forever, from our shore.


OUR COUNTRY SAVED

BY JAMES RUSSELL LOWELL

(Extract from Ode recited at the Harvard Commemoration, July 21, 1865.)

    Boom, cannon, boom to all the winds and waves!
      Clash out, glad bells, from every rocking steeple!
    Banners, advance with triumph, bend your staves!
      And from every mountain-peak
      Let beacon-fire to answering beacon speak,
      Katahdin tell Monadnock, Whiteface he,
    And so leap on in light from sea to sea,
      Till the glad news be sent
      Across a kindling continent,
    Making earth feel more firm and air breathe braver:
    Be proud! for she is saved, and all have helped to save her!
      She that lifts up the manhood of the poor,
      She of the open soul and open door,
      With room about her hearth for all mankind!
      The fire is dreadful in her eyes no more;
      From her bold front the helm she doth unbind,
      Sends all her handmaid armies back to spin,
      And bids her navies, that so lately hurled
      Their crashing battle, to hold their thunders in,
    Swimming like birds of calm along the unharmful shore.
      No challenge sends she to the older world,
      That looked askance and hatred; a light scorn
      Plays o’er her mouth, as round her mighty knees
      She calls her children back, and waits the morn
    Of nobler days, enthroned between her subject seas.

      Bow down, dear land, for thou hast found release!
      Thy God, in these distempered days,
      Hath taught thee the sure wisdom of His ways,
    And through thine enemies hath wrought thee peace!
      Bow down in prayer and praise!
    No poorest in thy borders but may now
    Lift to the juster skies a man’s enfranchised brow.
    O Beautiful! my Country! ours once more!
    Smoothing thy gold of war-disheveled hair
    O’er such sweet brows as never other wore,
      And letting thy set lips
      Freed from wrath’s pale eclipse,
    The rosy edges of their smile lay bare;
    What words divine of lover or of poet
    Could tell our love and make thee know it,
    Among the nations bright beyond compare?
      What were our lives without thee?
      What all our lives to save thee?
      We reck not what we gave thee;
      We will not dare to doubt thee,
    But ask whatever else, and we will dare!


NEW ENGLAND AND VIRGINIA

BY ROBERT CHARLES WINTHROP

There are circumstances of peculiar and beautiful correspondence in the
careers of Virginia and New England which must ever constitute a bond
of sympathy, affection, and pride between their children. Not only did
they form respectively the great northern and southern rallying points
of civilization on this continent; not only was the most friendly
competition or the most cordial coöperation, as circumstances allowed,
kept up between them during their early colonial existence—but who
forgets the generous emulation, the noble rivalry, with which they
continually challenged and seconded each other in resisting the first
beginnings of British aggression, in the persons of their James Otises
and Patrick Henrys?

Who forgets that while that resistance was first brought to a practical
test in New England, at Lexington and Concord and Bunker Hill,
Fortune reserved for Yorktown of Virginia the last crowning battle of
Independence? Who forgets that while the hand by which the original
Declaration of Independence was drafted, was furnished by Virginia, the
tongue by which the adoption of that instrument was defended and secured,
was furnished by New England,—a bond of common glory, upon which not
Death alone seemed to set his seal, but Deity, I had almost said, to
affix an immortal sanction, when the spirits by which that hand and voice
were moved, were caught up together to the clouds on the same great Day
of the Nation’s Jubilee.




VI

SWEET LAND OF LIBERTY


AMERICA[11]

BY S. F. SMITH

    My country, ’tis of Thee,
    Sweet Land of Liberty
      Of thee I sing;
    Land where my fathers died,
    Land of the pilgrims’ pride,
    From every mountain side
      Let Freedom ring.

    My native country, thee,
    Land of the noble free,
      Thy name I love;
    I love thy rocks and rills,
    Thy woods and templed hills,
    My heart with rapture thrills
      Like that above.

    Let music swell the breeze,
    And ring from all the trees
      Sweet Freedom’s song;
    Let mortal tongues awake;
    Let all that breathe partake;
    Let rocks their silence break,
      The sound prolong.

    Our fathers’ God to Thee,
    Author of Liberty,
      To thee we sing,
    Long may our land be bright
    With Freedom’s holy light,
    Protect us by thy might
      Great God, our King.

    Our glorious Land to-day,
    ’Neath Education’s sway,
      Soars upward still.
    Its halls of learning fair,
    Whose bounties all may share,
    Behold them everywhere
      On vale and hill!

    Thy safeguard, Liberty,
    The school shall ever be,—
      Our Nation’s pride!
    No tyrant hand shall smite,
    While with encircling might
    All here are taught the Right
      With Truth allied.

    Beneath Heaven’s gracious will
    The stars of progress still
      Our course do sway;
    In unity sublime
    To broader heights we climb,
    Triumphant over Time,
      God speeds our way!

    Grand birthright of our sires,
    Our altars and our fires
      Keep we still pure!
    Our starry flag unfurled,
    The hope of all the world,
    In Peace and Light impearled,
      God hold secure!


THE REPUBLIC

(From “The Building of the Ship.”)

BY HENRY WADSWORTH LONGFELLOW

    Thou, too, sail on, O Ship of State!
    Sail on, O UNION, strong and great!
    Humanity with all its fears,
    With all the hopes of future years,
    Is hanging breathless on thy fate!
    We know what Master laid thy keel,
    What Workmen wrought thy ribs of steel,
    Who made each mast, and sail, and rope,
    What anvils rang, what hammers beat,
    In what a forge and what a heat
    Were shaped the anchors of thy hope!
    Fear not each sudden sound and shock,
    ’Tis of the wave and not the rock;
    ’Tis but the flapping of the sail,
    And not a rent made by the gale!
    In spite of rock and tempest’s roar,
    In spite of false lights on the shore,
    Sail on, nor fear to breast the sea!
    Our hearts, our hopes, are all with thee,
    Our hearts, our hopes, our prayers, our tears,
    Our faith triumphant o’er our fears,
    Are all with thee,—are all with thee!


THE ANTIQUITY OF FREEDOM

BY WILLIAM CULLEN BRYANT

      Here are old trees, tall oaks, and gnarled pines,
    That stream with gray-green mosses; here the ground
    Was never trenched by spade, and flowers spring up
    Unsown, and die ungathered. It is sweet
    To linger here, among the flitting birds
    And leaping squirrels, wandering brooks, and winds
    That shake the leaves, and scatter, as they pass,
    A fragrance from the cedars, thickly set
    With pale blue berries. In these peaceful shades—
    Peaceful, unpruned, immeasurably old—
    My thoughts go up the long dim path of years,
    Back to the earliest days of liberty.

      O Freedom! thou art not, as poets dream,
    A fair young girl, with light and delicate limbs,
    And wavy tresses gushing from the cap
    With which the Roman master crowned his slave
    When he took off the gyves. A bearded man,
    Armed to the teeth, art thou; one mailèd hand
    Grasps the broad shield, and one the sword; thy brow,
    Glorious in beauty though it be, is scarred
    With tokens of old wars; thy massive limbs
    Are strong with struggling. Power at thee has launched
    His bolts, and with his lightnings smitten thee;
    They could not quench the life thou hast from heaven;
    Merciless Power has dug thy dungeon deep,
    And his swart armorers, by a thousand fires,
    Have forged thy chain; yet, while he deems thee bound,
    The links are shivered, and the prison walls
    Fall outward; terribly thou springest forth,
    As springs the flame above a burning pile,
    And shoutest to the nations, who return
    Thy shoutings, while the pale oppressor flies.

      Thy birthright was not given by human hands:
    Thou wert twin-born with man. In pleasant fields,
    While yet our race was few, thou sat’st with him,
    To tend the quiet flock and watch the stars,
    And teach the reed to utter simple airs.
    Thou by his side, amid the tangled wood,
    Didst war upon the panther and the wolf,
    His only foes; and thou with him didst draw
    The earliest furrow on the mountain’s side,
    Soft with the deluge. Tyranny himself,
    Thy enemy, although of reverend look,
    Hoary with many years, and far obeyed,
    Is later born than thou; and as he meets
    The grave defiance of thine elder eye,
    The usurper trembles in his fastnesses.

      Thou shalt wax stronger with the lapse of years,
    But he shall fade into a feebler age—
    Feebler, yet subtler. He shall weave his snares,
    And spring them on thy careless steps, and clap
    His withered hands, and from their ambush call
    His hordes to fall upon thee. He shall send
    Quaint maskers, wearing fair and gallant forms
    To catch thy gaze, and uttering graceful words
    To charm they ear; while his sly imps, by stealth,
    Twine round thee threads of steel, light thread on thread,
    That grow to fetters; or bind down thy arms
    With chains concealed in chaplets. Oh! not yet
    Mayst thou unbrace thy corselet, nor lay by
    Thy sword; nor yet, O Freedom! close thy lids
    In slumber; for thine enemy never sleeps,
    And thou must watch and combat till the day
    Of the new earth and heaven.


AMERICA

BY WILLIAM CULLEN BRYANT

    Oh, mother of a mighty race,
    Yet lovely in thy youthful grace!
    The elder dames, thy haughty peers,
    Admire and hate thy blooming years.
          With words of shame
    And taunts of scorn they join thy name.

    For on thy cheeks the glow is spread
    That tints thy morning hills with red;
    Thy step—the wild deer’s rustling feet
    Within thy woods are not more fleet;
          Thy hopeful eye
    Is bright as thine own sunny sky.

    Aye, let them rail—those haughty ones,
    While safe thou dwellest with thy sons.
    They do not know how loved thou art,
    How many a fond and fearless heart
          Would rise to throw
    Its life between thee and the foe.

    They know not, in their hate and pride,
    What virtues with thy children bide;
    How true, how good, thy graceful maids
    Make bright, like flowers, the valley shades;
          What generous men
    Spring, like thine oaks, by hill and glen;—

    What cordial welcomes greet the guest
    By thy lone rivers of the West;
    How faith is kept, and truth revered,
    And man is loved, and God is feared,
          In woodland homes,
    And where the ocean border foams.

    There’s freedom at thy gates and rest
    For Earth’s down-trodden and opprest,
    A shelter for the hunted head,
    For the starved laborer toil and bread.
          Power, at thy bounds,
    Stops and calls back his baffled hounds.

    Oh, fair young mother! on thy brow
    Shall sit a nobler grace than now.
    Deep in the brightness of the skies
    The thronging years in glory rise,
          And, as they fleet,
    Drop strength and riches at thy feet.

    Thine eye, with every coming hour,
    Shall brighten, and thy form shall tower;
    And when thy sisters, elder born,
    Would brand thy name with words of scorn,
          Before thine eye,
    Upon their lips the taunt shall die.


ODE

BY RALPH WALDO EMERSON

(Sung in the Town Hall, Concord, July 4, 1857.)

    O tenderly the haughty day
      Fills his blue urn with fire;
    One morn is in the mighty heaven,
      And one in our desire.

    The cannon booms from town to town,
      Our pulses beat not less,
    The joy-bells chime their tidings down,
      Which children’s voices bless.

    For He that flung the broad blue fold
      O’er-mantling land and sea,
    One third part of the sky unrolled
      For the banner of the free.

    The men are ripe of Saxon kind
      To build an equal state,—
    To take the statute from the mind
      And make of duty fate.

    United States! the ages plead,—
      Present and Past in under-song,—
    Go put your creed into your deed,
      Nor speak with double tongue.

    For sea and land don’t understand
      Nor skies without a frown
    See rights for which the one hand fights
      By the other cloven down.

    Be just at home; then write your scroll
      Of honor o’er the sea,
    And bid the broad Atlantic roll
      A ferry of the free.

    And henceforth there shall be no chain,
      Save underneath the sea
    The wires shall murmur through the main
      Sweet songs of liberty.

    The conscious stars accord above,
      The waters wild below,
    And under, through the cable wove,
      Her fiery errands go.


AMERICA FIRST[12]

ANONYMOUS

This is the season when Young America celebrates the glorious deeds of
the forefathers, when they cut the leading-strings that bound them to the
Old World, and stepped forth with the independence of manhood.

It took Rome five hundred years, five centuries of war, intrigue
and arrogance, to overspread Southern Europe. In a little more than
one century America has grown to a magnitude in area and perhaps in
population also, equal to that of Rome in its most magnificent days.

“_Civis Romanus sum!_” was the proudest boast that could fall from the
lips of man at the beginning of the Christian era. Is there to-day an
American who rates his citizenship in the Great Republic at a lower value
than Roman freedom nineteen hundred years ago?

The day for “spread-eagle” brag is long past, but there is no reason
why we should hesitate to say what not we alone but all the people of
the world believe, that it is the destiny of this country to become the
greatest, the strongest, the wealthiest, the most self-supporting of
all the nations of the earth. It is already the greatest self-governing
community the world has ever seen.

How can we make it greater? By standing together as Americans. We shall
not magnify, but shall belittle ourselves, if we swagger before our
neighbors—using bravado for the strong, and insolence in our treatment
of the weak. But we should take American views instead of party views,
when questions arise between this government and others.

The motto “America against the world” would be a contemptible motto. Yet
is it not better to adopt even such a motto than to take the side of the
world against America, or to be indifferent when the interests of one’s
own country are assailed?

The Fourth of July is a good time for us all to resolve that we will be
Americans at heart. Not that we will build up our own country on the
ruins of others, but that when there is a clashing of interests those of
our native land shall have our hearty support.


LIBERTY FOR ALL

BY WILLIAM LLOYD GARRISON

    They tell me, Liberty! that in thy name
    I may not plead for all the human race;
    That some are born to bondage and disgrace,
    Some to a heritage of woe and shame,
    And some to power supreme, and glorious fame:
    With my whole soul I spurn the doctrine base,
    And, as an equal brotherhood, embrace
    All people, and for all fair freedom claim!
    Know this, O man! whate’er thy earthly fate—
    God never made a tyrant nor a slave:
    Woe, then, to those who dare to desecrate
    His glorious image!—for to all He gave
    Eternal rights, which none may violate;
    And, by a mighty hand, the oppressed He yet shall save!


HYMN

(For the Fourth of July, 1863.)

ANONYMOUS

    Lord, the people of the land
    In Thy presence humbly stand;
    On this day, when Thou didst free
    Men of old from tyranny,
    We, their children, bow to Thee.
      Help us, Lord, our only trust!
      We are helpless, we are dust!

    All our homes are red with blood;
    Long our grief we have withstood;
    Every lintel, each door-post,
    Drips, at tidings from the host,
    With the blood of some one lost.
      Help us, Lord, our only trust!
      We are helpless, we are dust!

    Comfort, Lord, the grieving one
    Who bewails a stricken son!
    Comfort, Lord, the weeping wife,
    In her long, long widowed life,
    Brooding o’er the fatal strife,
      Help us, Lord, our only trust!
      We are helpless, we are dust!

    On our Nation’s day of birth,
    Bless Thy own long-favored earth!
    Urge the soldier with Thy will!
    Aid their leaders with Thy skill!
    Let them hear Thy trumpet thrill!
      Help us, Lord, our only trust!
      We are helpless, we are dust!

    Lord, we only fight for peace,
    Fight that freedom may increase.
    Give us back the peace of old,
    When the land with plenty rolled,
    And our banner awed the bold!
      Help us, Lord, our only trust!
      We are helpless, we are dust!

    Lest we pray in thoughtless guilt,
    Shape the future as Thou wilt!
    Purge our realm from hoary crime
    With Thy battles, dread, sublime,
    In Thy well-appointed time!
      Help us, Lord, our only trust!
      We are helpless, we are dust!

    With one heart the Nation’s cries
    From our choral lips arise:
    Thou didst point a noble way
    For our Fathers through the fray;
    Lead their children thus to-day!
      Help us, Lord, our only trust!
      We are helpless, we are dust!

    In His name, who bravely bore
    Cross and crown begemmed with gore,
    By His last immortal groan,
    Ere He mounted to His throne,
    Make our sacred cause Thy own!
      Help us, Lord, our only trust!
      We are helpless, we are dust!


THE DAWNING FUTURE

BY WILLIAM PRESTON JOHNSON, PRESIDENT OF TULANE UNIVERSITY, LA.

(Closing stanza of patriotic poem, “The Patriot South.”)

    Thus, in the march of time, and long procession
    Of coming ages, year on year,
    We mark the great Republic’s proud career,
    Like Philip’s phalanx, manifold,
    With bucklers linked, one front against aggression,
    Till Freedom’s perfect vision is unrolled,
    And man, with eye unsealed, its glories shall behold.


LIBERTY

The people never give up their liberties but under some delusion.

                        BURKE—_Speech at a County Meeting at Bucks, 1784._

    Liberty’s in every blow!
    Let us do or die.

                                                      BURNS—_Bannockburn._

What is liberty without wisdom and without virtue? It is the greatest of
all possible evils; for it is folly, vice, and madness, without tuition
or restraint.

                          BURKE—_Reflections on the Revolution in France._

The poorest man may in his cottage bid defiance to all the force of the
crown.

                              EARL OF CHATHAM—_Speech on the Excise Bill._

    ’Tis liberty alone that gives the flower
    Of fleeting life its luster and perfume;
    And we are weeds without it.

                                       COWPER—_The Task._ Bk. V. Line 446.

    The love of liberty with life is given,
    And life itself the inferior gift of heaven.

                            DRYDEN—_Palamon and Arcite._ Bk. II. Line 291.

    This is true liberty when freeborn men,
    Having to advise the public, may speak free:
    Which he who can and will deserves high praise:
    Who neither can nor will may hold his peace.
    What can be juster in a state than this?

                                    MILTON—Trans. _Horace._ Ep. i. 16, 40.

    Give me again my hollow tree
    A crust of bread, and liberty!

                 POPE—_Imitations of Horace._ Bk. II. Satire VI. Line 220.

O Liberty! Liberty! how many crimes are committed in thy name!

                                     MADAME ROLAND—_Macaulay._ _Mirabeau._


FREEDOM

      Hereditary bondsmen! Know ye not
    Who would be free themselves must strike the blow?

                                  BYRON—_Childe Harold._ Canto II. St. 67.

    Freedom has a thousand charms to show,
    That slaves howe’er contented, never know.

                                            COWPER—_Table Talk._ Line 260.

    He is the freeman, whom the truth makes free,
    And all are slaves besides.

                                       COWPER—_The Task._ Bk. V. Line 733.

    When Freedom from her mountain height
      Unfurled her standard to the air,
    She tore the azure robe of night,
      And set the stars of glory there.

                                                DRAKE—_The American Flag._

    My angel—his name is Freedom,—
    Choose him to be your king;
    He shall cut pathways east and west,
    And fend you with his wing.

                                                    EMERSON—_Boston Hymn._

    Yes, to this thought I hold with firm persistence;
    The last result of wisdom stamps it true;
    He only earns his freedom and existence
    Who daily conquers them anew.

                                                           GOETHE—_Faust._

    Know ye why the Cypress tree as Freedom’s tree is known?
    Know ye why the Lily fair as Freedom’s flower is shown?
    Hundred arms the Cypress has, yet never plunder seeks;
    With ten well-developed tongues the Lily never speaks!

                            OMAR KHAYYAM—Frederich Bodenstedt, Translator.

    What is freedom? Rightly understood,
    A universal license to be good.

                                                        HARTLEY COLERIDGE.


A RHAPSODY

BY CASSIUS MARCELLUS CLAY

I may be an enthusiast; but I cannot but give utterance to the
conceptions of my own mind. When I look upon the special developments
of European civilization; when I contemplate the growing freedom of the
cities, and the middle class which has sprung up between the pretenders
to divine rule on the one hand, and the abject serf on the other; when
I consider the Reformation, and the invention of the press, and see, on
the southern shore of the continent, an humble individual, amidst untold
difficulties and repeated defeats, pursuing the mysterious suggestions
which the mighty deep poured unceasingly upon his troubled spirit, till
at last, with great and irrepressible energy of soul, he discovered that
there lay in the far western ocean a continent open for the infusion of
those elementary principles of liberty which were dwarfed in European
soil,—I conceive that the hand of destiny was there!

When I see the immigration of the Pilgrims from the chalky shores of
England,—in the night fleeing from their native home,—so dramatically
and ably pictured by Mr. Webster in his celebrated oration,—when father,
mother, brother, wife, sister, lover, were all lost by those melancholy
wanderers—“stifling,” in the language of one who is immortal in the
conception, “the mighty hunger of the heart,” and landing, amidst cold
and poverty and death, upon the rude rocks of Plymouth,—I venture to
think the will of Deity was there!

When I have remembered the Revolution of ’76,—the Seven Years’ War—three
millions of men in arms against the most powerful nation in history, and
vindicating their independence,—I have thought that their sufferings and
death were not in vain! When I have seen the forsaken hearthstone,—looked
upon the battle-field, upon the dying and the dead,—heard the agonizing
cry, “Water, for the sake of God! water;” seeing the dissolution of
being—pale lips pressing in death the yet loved images of wife, sister,
lover,—I have not deemed—I will not deem all these things in vain! I
cannot regard this great continent, reaching from the Atlantic to the far
Pacific, and from the St. John’s to the Rio del Norte, as the destined
home of a barbarian people of third-rate civilization.

Like the Roman who looked back upon the glory of his ancestors, in woe,
exclaiming,

    “Great Scipio’s ghost complains that we are slow,
    And Pompey’s shade walks unavenged among us,”

the great dead hover around me:—Lawrence, “Don’t give up the
ship.”—Henry, “Give me liberty or give me death!”—Adams, “Survive or
perish, I am for the Declaration.”—Allan, “In the name of the living God,
I come!”

Come then, Thou Eternal, who dwellest not in temples made with hands, but
who, in the city’s crowd or by the far forest stream, revealest Thyself
to the earnest seeker after the true and right, inspire my heart; give
me undying courage to pursue the promptings of my spirit; and whether I
shall be called in the shades of life to look upon as sweet and kind and
lovely faces as now, or shut in by sorrow and night, horrid visions shall
gloom upon me in my dying hour, O my country, mayest thou yet be free!


COLUMBIA

BY FREDERICK LAWRENCE KNOWLES

    Mated to the Millennium,—Time’s last heir
      And proudest daughter, conquerless as he;
    Girdled with lakes like jewels princely fair,
      With strong feet planted in the Mexic sea!

    Where Law is liberty, where Love is power,
      And the twain one, there Treason cannot dwell;
    A fangless asp, it coiled one impotent hour,
      But at thy white glance backward writhed to hell.

    Leave dotard empires flames of drunken war,
      Be thine chaste hours of labor and increase,
    Vineyards and harvests yielding guiltless store,
      Toil’s bloodless battles on the plains of peace!

    Yet when slain Weakness, dying at thy door,
      Summoning thy right arm’s vengeance, clasps thy feet,—
    Thy sword that drinks her murderer’s blood is pure
      As laughing sickles in the saffron wheat.

    Clearing a crimson path where Peace may tread
      More safely; thou dost play thy patient part,
    Love’s pledged ally,—yea, though thy blade be red;
      Thrusting War’s weapons thro’ his own false heart.

    O goddess, arctic-crowned and tropic-shod
      And belted with great waters, hear our cry,—
    More honest never reached the ear of God,—
      We’ll serve thee, laud thee, love thee, till we die!


A RENAISSANCE OF PATRIOTISM[13]

BY GEORGE J. MANSON


A RENAISSANCE

Within the past few years there has been what ex-President Harrison
once happily termed “a renaissance of patriotism.” It started with the
centennial anniversaries of 1776, which had the effect of carrying the
memories of the people back to the period of the Nation’s birth, and
subsequently resulted in the formation of several societies which will
be the means of fostering the patriotic spirit and love of country,
and recall remembrances of our Revolutionary struggle. The organizers
of these societies found that there was a growing lack of what may be
called national patriotism—the patriotism that grows out of a lively
recollection of the early making of the country through battle, toil,
and hardship of the fathers. This lukewarm spirit was not charged to
the flood of immigration, or to the lapse of time, but was principally
due to neglect on the part of the descendants of Revolutionary heroes
to perform their duty of keeping before the public mind the memory of
the services of their ancestors, the times in which they lived and the
principles for which they contended.


THE SONS OF THE REVOLUTION

One of the first of these societies to be started was the “Sons of the
Revolution.” This was organized February 22, 1876, reorganized December
4, 1883, and incorporated May 3, 1884. The aim of this society is to
perpetuate the memory of the men who, in military, naval or civil
service, by their acts or counsel, achieved American independence. The
members promote and assist in the proper celebration of the anniversaries
of Washington’s Birthday, the battles of Lexington and Bunker Hill,
the Fourth of July, the capitulation of Saratoga and Yorktown, and the
formal evacuation of New York by the British army, December 3, 1783, as
a relinquishment of territorial sovereignty, and other prominent events
relating to or connected with the War of the Revolution.

The roll-book of the members is something more than a mere list of
names. Before each name is the year, showing when the member was
admitted into the society, and there is also given in a paragraph his
genealogical history so far as it relates to his ancestors who were in
any way connected with the Revolutionary struggle. There is a general,
or national society, divided into state societies which regulate their
own affairs. Under the rules of the New York State society, ten or more
members can organize within any county outside of the county of New York,
such a body being called a local chapter. The total membership is now
about six thousand. When membership is asked on the ground of an ancestor
having been a “sailor” or “marine,” it must be shown that such service
was other than shore duty and regularly performed in the Continental
navy, or the navy of one of the original thirteen states, or on an
armed vessel other than a merchant ship. When the ancestor has been an
“official” his service must have been sufficiently important in character
to have rendered him specially liable to arrest and imprisonment, if
captured by the enemy, as well as liable to conviction of treason against
the Government of Great Britain.

A few years ago the society stimulated interest in its work by offering
two prizes to the cadets of the United States Naval Academy, at
Annapolis, Md.,—a gold medal and a silver medal—for the best original
essays upon the subject, “The Navy of the Revolution.” A singular and
patriotic feature of these essays was that they were not to contain less
than 1,776 words. A gold medal is likewise annually awarded by the New
York society to a student in the College of the City of New York, for the
best essay on a patriotic subject, and gold, silver, and bronze medals to
the scholars of the high schools throughout the State for like essays.
Similar prizes are awarded by the societies in other states.

Congress has also been urged, by the Sons of the Revolution as a body,
to pass a bill which has already been introduced in that body, making an
appropriation of a sum of money to erect a monument to John Paul Jones.
It has also memorialized Congress to enact such a law as will secure the
publication of all the archives of the United States Government relating
to the War of the Revolution, in a manner similar to the publication of
the records of the War of the Rebellion.

The seal of the society is an interesting study, suggesting as it
does, in small compass, the spirit of patriotism the society desires
to cultivate. The seal consists of the figure of a minute-man, in
Continental uniform, standing on a ladder leading to a belfry. In his
right hand he holds a musket and an olive branch, while his left hand
grasps a bell-rope. Above is seen the cracked Liberty bell, from which
issues a ribbon bearing the motto of the society: _Exegi monumentum aere
perennius_. Many members of this society did gallant service in the war
with Spain.


SONS OF THE AMERICAN REVOLUTION

The second important patriotic society is the “Sons of the American
Revolution,” a name very similar to that of the organization just
mentioned. The first branch of this society was formed in California in
1876 by a body of descendants of officers, soldiers, and seamen of the
Revolution gathered in San Francisco for the purpose of celebrating the
one hundredth anniversary of the Declaration of Independence. Similar
societies were therefore organized in other states and, on April 30,
1889, these societies with two or three exceptions celebrated the
centennial inauguration of Washington as first President of the United
States. This meeting was held in Fraunce’s Tavern, in New York City, in
the identical long room (now marked with a commemorative tablet) in which
Washington bade farewell to his officers, December 3, 1783. The national
organization was formed on the occasion of this meeting.

This society exists in about thirty states, and numbers about five
thousand members. A singular and interesting feature in connection with
this and kindred organizations is that their existence has led to and
greatly stimulated genealogical research, a species of investigation to
which Americans, as a rule, have given but little attention. Persons
who have become interested in these societies, it has been found, have
rescued unrecorded facts from the aged members of their families who were
destined soon to pass away, information which could have been obtained in
no other way and which would have been lost forever in a few years.

The “Sons of the American Revolution” prides itself on being a practical
and not merely a sentimental and ornamental organization. It has been
particularly active in saving throughout the country valuable historical
landmarks, such as the headquarters of Jonathan Trumbull, in Connecticut,
which has been obtained and is now used for a museum. It is marking
historical spots and, directly and indirectly, securing the erection of
memorials of the Revolutionary heroes, such as the Bennington Monument,
near that famous battle-field, the statue of Gen. John Stark, in New
Hampshire, and a monument to be erected in Baltimore to Maryland’s heroes
of the Revolution. It has obtained from Congress a law providing for the
collection and indexing of the records of service of the Revolution. It
has stimulated the general observance of national patriotic holidays,
and was influential in setting apart June 14th as “Flag Day” in
commemoration of the adoption of the Stars and Stripes as the national
standard.


THE SOCIETY OF COLONIAL WARS

“The Society of Colonial Wars,” originated in New York, and was
instituted August 18, 1892, and incorporated October 18, 1892. In
May, 1893, the New York society with the societies in the states of
Pennsylvania, Maryland, Massachusetts, Connecticut, and the District
of Columbia organized the general society, these states, having been
previously chartered by the society in the State of New York. The objects
of the organizations are similar to those of the previously named
societies, from which they differ only in minor details. The present
membership is approximately 3,000. On June 14th of this year (1898) this
society joined with the Sons of the Revolution in appropriate ceremonies
attending the unveiling of commemorative tablets at Fort Ticonderoga,
intended to perpetuate the memories of the capture of the fort by Colonel
Ethan Allen and his gallant band, the Colonial battles fought in the
vicinity of Fort Ticonderoga, etc.


THE MILITARY ORDER OF FOREIGN WARS

“The Military Order of Foreign Wars” is, as its name implies, a military
organization with patriotic objects, having for its scope the period of
American history since national independence. The principal feature of
the order is the perpetuating of the names, as well as the services, of
commissioned officers who served in either the War of the Revolution,
the War with Tripoli, the War of 1812, the Mexican War, or the War
with Spain. Veteran Companionship is conferred upon such officers, and
Hereditary Companionship upon their direct lineal descendants in the
male line. The present membership is 1,400, which is rapidly growing.
Other societies that merit more extended notice but which can here
only be named are the “Order of Cincinnati,” the “Society of the War
of 1812,” the “Aztec Club,” the “Loyal Legion,” the “Grand Army of the
Republic,” the “Flag Association,” “Colonial Order of the Acorn,” “Order
of Washington,” the “Pilgrim Society,” and some others.


THE DAUGHTERS OF THE REVOLUTION

It is quite natural that women, whose patriotic services during the late
Civil War have often been the subject of grateful eulogy, should become
interested in this new movement. There are several patriotic societies,
composed exclusively of women, the objects of which are practically the
same as the organizations which have just been mentioned. The society
known as the “Daughters of the Revolution” was organized by Mrs. Flora
Adams Darling, September 9, 1891. In October, 1890, was organized
the more important society known as the “Daughters of the American
Revolution,” which now has a membership of about 3,500. This society has
state chapters existing in most of the states. To become a member of this
society a woman must be not less than eighteen years of age, and be the
descendant of an ancestor who loyally rendered material aid as a soldier,
sailor or civil officer to the cause of independence. The Daughters of
the American Revolution have presented to the City of Paris an equestrian
statue of Lafayette designed and executed by Daniel C. French. It was
intended to be a return of the compliment to the American people conveyed
by the French Government when it presented to the United States the
statue of Washington which is now at the National Capital. The unveiling
took place with imposing ceremonies on July 3rd.


THE COLONIAL DAMES OF AMERICA

The “Colonial Dames of America,” an organization incorporated in 1893,
requires of a member that she shall be descended in her own right from
some ancestor of worthy life who came to reside in the American colony
prior to 1750. This ancestor, or some one of his descendants, shall be
a lineal ascendant of the applicant, and shall have rendered efficient
service to his country during the colonial period either in the founding
of the commonwealth, or of an institution which has survived and
developed into importance, or who shall have held an important position
in the Colonial Government and by distinguished services shall have
contributed to the founding of the Nation. Services rendered after 1783
are not recognized.


UNITED STATES DAUGHTERS, 1776-1812

Still another woman’s patriotic organization is known as the “United
States Daughters, 1776-1812.” This society was founded by Mrs. Flora
Adams Darling, and incorporated in 1892. Ladies to be eligible must be
lineal descendants of an ancestor who assisted in the wars of 1776-1812,
either as a military or naval officer, soldier, sailor, or in any way
gave aid to the cause, tho’ the society reserves to itself the privilege
of rejecting any nomination that may not be acceptable to it.

Another patriotic woman’s organization tho’ not of recent date, which
has for years rendered important service, is the “Mount Vernon Ladies’
Association,” of Washington, D. C. This association has under its care
and direction the Washington estate at Mount Vernon, Va. In 1895 a
volume entitled “Ancestry” was published by Bailey, Banks and Biddle
(Philadelphia) in connection with their Department of Heraldry that
contained a complete list of the various patriotic societies, then
forty-seven in number. Since the publication of this volume many new
societies have sprung up.


CENTENNIAL POEMS

CENTENNIAL HYMN[14]

BY JOHN GREENLEAF WHITTIER

SUNG AT THE OPENING OF THE WORLD’S FAIR AT PHILADELPHIA, IN 1876.

    Our fathers’ God, from out whose hand
    The centuries fall like grains of sand,
    We meet to-day, united, free,
    And loyal to our land and Thee,
    To thank Thee for the era done,
    And trust Thee for the opening one.

    Here, where of old, by Thy design,
    The fathers spake that word of Thine
    Whose echo is the glad refrain
    Of rended bolt and falling chain,—
    To grace our festal time, from all
    The zones of earth, our guests we call.

    Be with us while the New World greets
    The Old World, thronging all our streets,
    Unveiling all the triumphs won
    By art or toil, beneath the sun,
    And unto common good ordain
    This rivalship of hand and brain.

    Thou, who hast here, in Concord, furled
    The war-flags of a gathered world,—
    Beneath our Western skies fulfill
    The Orient’s mission of good will,
    And, freighted with Love’s Golden Fleece,
    Send back the Argonauts of Peace.

    For Art and Labor, met in truce,
    For Beauty made the bride of Use,
    We thank Thee; while, withal, we crave
    The austere virtues, strong to save,—
    The Honor, proof to place or gold,
    The Manhood, never bought nor sold.

    Oh, make Thou us, through centuries long,
    In Peace secure, in justice strong;
    Around our gift of Freedom draw
    The safeguards of Thy righteous law;
    And, cast in some diviner mold,
    Let the new cycle shame the old.


WELCOME TO THE NATION[15]

(Centennial Hymn sung on Independence Day, 1876.)

BY OLIVER WENDELL HOLMES

    Bright on the banners of lily and rose,
      Lo, the last sun of our country sets!
    Wreathe the bright cannon that scowled on our foes,
      All but her friendships the Nation forgets,
      All but her friends, and their welcome, forgets.
    These are around her: but where are her foes?
      Lo, while the sun of her century sets,
    Peace, with her garlands of lily and rose!

    Welcome! a shout like the war-trumpet’s swell
      Wakes the wild echoes that slumber around!
    Welcome! it quivers from Liberty’s bell;
      Welcome! the walls of her temple resound!
      Hark! the gray walls of her temple resound!
    Fade the far voices o’er hillside and dell;
      Welcome! still whisper the echoes around!
    Welcome! still trembles on Liberty’s bell!

    Thrones of the continents! isles of the sea!
      Yours are the garlands of peace we entwine;
    Welcome once more to the land of the free,
      Shadowed alike by the palm and the pine;
      Softly they murmur, the palm and the pine,
    “Hushed is our strife, in the land of the free;”
      Over your children their branches entwine,
    Thrones of the continents! isles of the sea!


LIBERTY’S LATEST DAUGHTER

BY BAYARD TAYLOR

(Third Canto.)

    Foreseen in the vision of sages,
      Foretold when martyrs bled,
    She was born of the longing of ages,
      By the truth of the noble dead,
      And the faith of the living, fed!
    No blood in her lightest veins
    Frets at remembered chains,
    Nor shame of bondage has bowed her head
      In her form and features still,
      The unblenching Puritan will,
    Cavalier honor, Huguenot grace,
      The Quaker truth and sweetness,
    And the strength of the danger-girdled race
      Of Holland, blend in a proud completeness.
    From the homes of all, where her being began,
    She took what she gave to man:
    Justice that knew no station,
      Belief as soul decreed,
    Free air for aspiration,
      Free force for independent deed.
    She takes, but to give again,
    As the sea returns the rivers in rain;
    And gathered the chosen of her seed
    From the hunted of every crown and creed.
    Her Germany dwells by a gentler Rhine;
    Her Ireland sees the old sunburst shine;
    Her France pursues some dream divine;
    Her Norway keeps his mountain-pine;
    Her Italy waits by the western brine;
    And, broad-based under all
      Is planted England’s oaken-hearted mood,
      As rich in fortitude
    As e’er went world-ward from the island wall.
      Fused in her candid light,
      To one strong race all races here united;
    Tongues melt in hers; hereditary foemen
      Forget their sword and slogan, kith and clan;
    ’Twas glory, once, to be a Roman;
      She makes it glory, now, to be a man.


“SCUM O’ THE EARTH”[16]

BY ROBERT HAVEN SCHAUFFLER

I

    At the gate of the West I stand,
    On the isle where the nations throng.
    We call them “scum o’ the earth”;

    Stay, are we doing you wrong,
    Young fellow from Socrates’ land?—
    You, like a Hermes so lissome and strong
    Fresh from the master Praxiteles’ hand?
    So you’re of Spartan birth?
    Descended, perhaps, from one of the band—
    Deathless in story and song—
    Who combed their long hair at Thermopylæ’s pass?...
    Ah, I forget the straits, alas!
    More tragic than theirs, more compassion-worth,
    That have doomed you to march in our “immigrant class”
    Where you’re nothing but “scum o’ the earth.”

II

    You Pole with the child on your knee,
    What dower bring you to the land of the free?
    Hark! does she croon
    That sad little tune
    That Chopin once found on his Polish lea
    And mounted in gold for you and for me?
    Now a ragged young fiddler answers
    In wild Czech melody
    That Dvořak took whole from the dancers.
    And the heavy faces bloom
    In the wonderful Slavik way;
    The little, dull eyes, the brows a-gloom,
    Suddenly dawn like the day.
    While, watching these folk and their mystery,
    I forget that they’re nothing worth;
    That Bohemians, Slovaks, Croatians,
    And men of all Slavik nations
    Are “polacks”—and “scum o’ the earth.”

III

    Genoese boy of the level brow,
    Lad of the lustrous, dreamy eyes
    Astare at Manhattan’s pinnacles now
    In the first, sweet shock of a hushed surprise;
    Within your far-rapt seer’s eyes
    I catch the glow of the wild surmise
    That played on the Santa Maria’s prow
    In that still gray dawn,
    Four centuries gone,
    When a world from the wave began to rise.
    Oh, it’s hard to foretell what high emprise
    Is the goal that gleams
    When Italy’s dreams
    Spread wing and sweep into the skies.
    Cæsar dreamed him a world ruled well;
    Dante dreamed Heaven out of Hell;
    Angelo brought us there to dwell;
    And you, are you of a different birth?—
    You’re only a “dago,”—and “scum o’ the earth”!

IV

    Stay, are we doing you wrong
    Calling you “scum o’ the earth,”
    Man of the sorrow-bowed head,
    Of the features tender yet strong,—
    Man of the eyes full of wisdom and mystery
    Mingled with patience and dread?
    Have I not known you in history,
    Sorrow-bowed head?
    Were you the poet-king, worth
    Treasures of Ophir unpriced?
    Were you the prophet, perchance, whose art
    Foretold how the rabble would mock
    That shepherd of spirits, erelong,
    Who should carry the lambs on his heart
    And tenderly feed his flock?
    Man—lift that sorrow-bowed head.
    Lo! ’tis the face of the Christ!

    The vision dies at its birth.
    You’re merely a butt for our mirth.
    You’re a “sheeny”—and therefore despised
    And rejected as “scum o’ the earth.”

V

    Countrymen, bend and invoke
    Mercy for us blasphemers,
    For that we spat on these marvelous folk,
    Nations of darers and dreamers,
    Scions of singers and seers,
    Our peers, and more than our peers.
    “Rabble and refuse,” we name them
    And “scum o’ the earth,” to shame them.
    Mercy for us of the few, young years,
    Of the culture so callow and crude,
    Of the hands so grasping and rude,
    The lips so ready for sneers
    At the sons of our ancient more-than-peers.
    Mercy for us who dare despise
    Men in whose loins our Homer lies;
    Mothers of men who shall bring to us
    The glory of Titian, the grandeur of Huss;
    Children in whose frail arms shall rest
    Prophets and singers and saints of the West.
    Newcomers all from the eastern seas,
    Help us incarnate dreams like these.
    Forget, and forgive, that we did you wrong.
    Help us to father a nation, strong
    In the comradeship of an equal birth,
    In the wealth of the richest bloods of earth.


LIBERTY AND UNION ONE AND INSEPARABLE

BY DANIEL WEBSTER

I profess, sir, in my career hitherto, to have kept steadily in view the
prosperity and honor of the whole country, and the preservation of our
Federal Union. It is to that Union that we owe our safety at home, and
our consideration and dignity abroad. It is to that Union that we are
chiefly indebted for whatever makes us most proud of our country. That
Union we reached only by the discipline of our virtues, in the severe
school of adversity. It had its origin in the necessities of disordered
finance, prostrate commerce, and ruined credit. Under its benign
influences these great interests immediately awoke, as from the dead,
and sprang forth with newness of life. Every year of its duration has
teemed with fresh proofs of its utility and its blessings; and, although
our territory has stretched out wider and wider, and our population
spread farther and farther, they have not outrun its protection or its
benefits. It has been to us all a copious fountain of national, social,
and personal happiness. I have not allowed myself, sir, to look beyond
the Union, to see what might lie hidden in the dark recess behind. I
have not coolly weighed the chances of preserving liberty, when the bonds
that unite us together shall be broken asunder. I have not accustomed
myself to hang over the precipice of disunion, to see whether, with my
short sight, I can fathom the depth of the abyss below; nor could I
regard him as a safe counselor in the affairs of this government, whose
thought should be mainly bent on considering, not how the Union may be
best preserved, but how tolerable might be the condition of the people
when it should be broken up and destroyed.

While the Union lasts, we have high, exciting, gratifying prospects
spread out before us, for us and our children. Beyond that I seek not
to penetrate the veil. God grant that in my day, at least, that curtain
may not rise! God grant that on my vision never may be opened what lies
behind! When my eyes shall be turned to behold, for the last time, the
sun in heaven, may I not see him shining on the broken and dishonored
fragments of a once glorious Union; on States dissevered, discordant,
belligerent; on a land rent with civil feuds, or drenched, it may be, in
fraternal blood!

Let their last feeble and lingering glance rather behold the gorgeous
ensign of the republic, now known and honored throughout the earth, still
full high advanced, its arms and trophies streaming in their original
luster, not a stripe erased or polluted, nor a single star obscured;
bearing for its motto no such miserable interrogatory as, _What is all
this worth?_ nor those other words of delusion and folly,—_Liberty first
and Union afterwards_; but everywhere, spread all over in characters of
living light, blazing on all its ample folds as they float over the sea
and over the land, and in every wind under the whole heavens, that other
sentiment, dear to every true American heart,—_Liberty_ and _Union_,
_now_ and _forever_, _one_ and _inseparable_!


ADDRESS TO LIBERTY

BY WILLIAM COWPER

    Oh, could I worship aught beneath the skies
    That earth hath seen, or fancy could devise,
    Thine altar, sacred Liberty, should stand,
    Built by no mercenary, vulgar hand,
    With fragrant turf, and flowers as wild and fair
    As ever dressed a bank, or scented summer air.

    Duly, as ever on the mountain’s height
    The peep of morning shed a dawning light;
    Again, when evening in her sober vest
    Drew the gray curtain of the fading west;
    My soul should yield thee willing thanks and praise
    For the chief blessings of my fairest days:
    But that were sacrilege: praise is not thine,
    But His, who gave thee, and preserves thee mine;
    Else I would say,—and, as I spake, bid fly
    A captive bird into the boundless sky,—
    This rising realm adores thee: thou art come
    From Sparta hither, and art here at home;
    We feel thy force still active; at this hour
    Enjoys immunity from priestly power;
    While conscience, happier than in ancient years,
    Owns no superior but the God she fears.
    Propitious Spirit! yet expunge a wrong
    Thy rights have suffered, and our land, too long;
    Teach mercy to ten thousand hearts, that share
    The fears and hopes of a commercial care;
    Prisons expect the wicked, and were built
    To bind the lawless, and to punish guilt;
    But shipwreck, earthquake, battle, fire, and flood
    Are mighty mischiefs, not to be withstood:
    And honest merit stands on slippery ground
    Where covert guile and artifice abound.
    Let just restraint, for public peace designed,
    Chain up the wolves and tigers of mankind,—
    The foe of virtue has no claim to thee,—
    But let insolvent innocence go free.


THE TORCH OF LIBERTY

BY THOMAS MOORE

    I saw it all in Fancy’s glass—
      Herself, the fair, the wild magician,
    Who bade this splendid day-dream pass,
      And named each gilded apparition.
    ’Twas like a torch-race,—such as they
      Of Greece performed, in ages gone,
    When the fleet youths, in long array,
      Passed the bright torch triumphant on.

    I saw the expectant nations stand
      To catch the coming flame in turn;
    I saw, from ready hand to hand,
      The clear, though struggling, glory burn.
    And oh, their joy, as it came near,
      ’Twas, in itself, a joy to see;
    While Fancy whispered in my ear,
      “That torch they pass is Liberty!”

    And each, as she received the flame,
      Lighted her altar with its ray;
    Then, smiling, to the next who came,
      Speeded it on its sparkling way.
    From Albion first, whose ancient shrine
      Was furnished with the flame already,
    Columbia caught the boon divine,
      And lit a flame, like Albion’s, steady.

    Shine, shine forever, glorious flame,
      Divinest gift of gods to men!
    From Greece thy earliest splendor came,
      To Greece thy ray returns again.
    Take, Freedom, take thy radiant round;
      When dimmed, revive; when lost, return;
    Till not a shrine through earth be found
      On which thy glories shall not burn!


HOROLOGE OF LIBERTY

ANONYMOUS

The world heard: the battle of Lexington—one; the Declaration
of Independence—two; the surrender of Burgoyne—three; the siege
of Yorktown—four; the treaty of Paris—five; the inauguration of
Washington—six; and then it was the sunrise of a new day, of which we
have seen yet only the glorious forenoon.


THE AMERICAN REPUBLIC

BY GEORGE BANCROFT

In the fullness of time, a Republic rose up in the wilderness of America.
Thousands of years had passed away before this child of the ages could be
born. From whatever there was of good in the systems of former centuries
she drew her nourishment; the wrecks of the past were her warnings.
With the deepest sentiment of faith fixed in her inmost nature, she
disenthralled religion from bondage to temporal power, that her worship
might be worship only in spirit and in truth.

The wisdom which had passed from India through Greece, with what
Greece had added of her own; the jurisprudence of Rome; the mediæval
municipalities; the Teutonic method of representation, the political
experience of England, the benignant wisdom of the expositors of the law
of nature and of nations in France and Holland, all shed on her their
selectest influence. She washed the gold of political wisdom from the
sands wherever it was found; she cleft it from the rocks; she gleaned it
among ruins. Out of all the discoveries of statesmen and sages, out of
all the experience of past human life, she compiled a perennial political
philosophy, the primordial principles of national ethics.

The wise men of Europe sought the best government in a mixture of
monarchy, aristocracy, and democracy; and America went behind these
names to extract from them the vital elements of social forms, and blend
them harmoniously in the free Commonwealth, which comes nearest to
the illustration of the natural equality of all men. She entrusted the
guardianship of established rights to law; the movements of reform to the
spirit of the people, and drew her force from the happy reconciliation of
both.


A NEW NATIONAL HYMN

BY FRANCIS MARION CRAWFORD

    Hail, Freedom! thy bright crest
    And gleaming shield, thrice blest,
      Mirror the glories of a world thine own.
    Hail, heaven-born Peace! our sight,
    Led by thy gentle light,
      Shows us the paths with deathless flowers strewn.
    Peace, daughter of a strife sublime,
    Abide with us till strife be lost in endless time.

    Her one hand seals with gold
    The portals of night’s fold,
      Her other the broad gates of dawn unbars;
    O’er silent wastes of snows,
    Crowning her lofty brows,
      Gleams high her diadem of northern stars;
    While, clothed in garlands of warm flowers,
    Round Freedom’s feet the South her wealth of beauty showers.

    Sweet is the toil of peace,
    Sweet is the year’s increase,
      To loyal men who live by Freedom’s laws;
    And in war’s fierce alarms
    God gives stout hearts and arms
      To freemen sworn to save a rightful cause.
    Fear none, trust God, maintain the right,
    And triumph in unbroken Union’s might.

    Welded in war’s fierce flame,
    Forged on the hearth of fame,
      The sacred Constitution was ordained;
    Tried in the fire of time,
    Tempered in woes sublime,
      An age was passed and left it yet unstained.
    God grant its glories still may shine,
    While ages fade, forgotten, in time’s slow decline!

    Honor the few who shared
    Freedom’s first fight, and dared
      To face war’s desperate tide at the full flood;
    Who fell on hard-won ground,
    And into Freedom’s wound
      Poured the sweet balsam of their brave hearts’ blood.
    They fell; but o’er that glorious grave
    Floats free the banner of the cause they died to save.

    In radiance heavenly fair,
    Floats on the peaceful air
      That flag that never stooped from Victory’s pride;
    Those stars that softly gleam,
    Those stripes that o’er us stream,
      In war’s grand agony were sanctified;
    A holy standard, pure and free,
    To light the home of peace, or blaze in victory.

    Father, whose mighty power
    Shields us through life’s short hour,
      To Thee we pray: Bless us and keep us free;
    All that is past forgive;
    Teach us, henceforth, to live
      That, through our country, we may honor Thee;
    And, when this mortal life shall cease,
    Take Thou, at last, our souls to Thine eternal peace.




VII

FICTION


JIM’S AUNT

BY FRANCES BENT DILLINGHAM

“I wish you could take him in,” the minister said, almost entreatingly.
“He isn’t a bad boy, you know; his family is quite respectable; but when
his aunt said she couldn’t afford to take him into the country with her
children, it seemed too bad for him to stay in the city.”

“Oh, yes, of course,” Miss Lucinda assented hastily. “If only he wasn’t a
boy!”

The minister sighed. “I want you to do what you think best.”

It was Miss Lucinda’s turn to sigh now—a long-drawn breath of surrender.
“Well, I’ll take him,” she said.

The minister rose to go. “It’s very kind of you, Miss Tarbox; be sure I
appreciate your self-sacrifice;” and then he added, in a hesitating sort
of way, “You are always full of good works.”

The color flamed up in Miss Lucinda’s face. “Oh!” she exclaimed, lifting
her proud head still higher, “I don’t do anything!” and the minister felt
the usual sense of defeat he experienced in Miss Tarbox’s presence.

He was quite dejected as he went down the garden walk. “So excellent
a woman,” he murmured to himself, and he mournfully contrasted her
uncompromising manner with the flattering air of other single ladies of
his parish as he glanced back furtively toward her parlor window.

But Miss Tarbox would have considered it unpardonable coquetry to peep
after the minister, since he was an unmarried man, and she an eligible if
not youthful spinster, so she went at once into the kitchen to prepare
her supper. But the color did not at once fade from her cheeks as she
moved about in her rapid, methodical manner, and she thought not so
much of the boy who was to come, as of the man who had just gone. If
the minister felt overcome in Miss Lucinda’s presence, she, too, had a
similar feeling after he had left her with some unspoken word on his lips.

“It seems as though he was going to say something sometimes, but I kill
it out of him. I wonder what is the matter with me, anyway?” Miss Lucinda
had acquired a habit of talking to herself, and now nodded gravely to
her reflection in the little mirror over the kitchen shelf. “I’m not
bad-looking and I mean to be pleasant, but, somehow most folks seem kind
of afraid of me. I s’pose I have an up-and-coming way with me that scares
most of them. I don’t seem to be the sort they take to; though I must say
it’s forlorn to be that way,” and the image in the mirror sighed audibly.

When Miss Lucinda had seated herself at her lonely tea-table, her
thoughts took another channel. “What in the world am I to do with a boy?
He’ll upset things on the table-cloth, and let flies in the house and rub
his fingers on the window-pane, and holler. Well, there’s one thing about
it, he’s got to mind every word I say to him!” But here Miss Lucinda
drew herself up with a jerk. “There you go, Lucinda, complaining of
your loneliness, and then finding fault when someone comes to see you;
thinking you’re too fond of running things, and then saying you’re going
to make this boy do just as you want him to.”

It was only a few days later when the boy came, in company with the
minister. He was not so large a boy as Miss Lucinda had expected from his
age, and he was rather thin and pale.

“I’ll give him enough to eat, that’s one thing,” she told the minister.
“And I’ve been thinking there’s one comfort in a boy: he doesn’t talk so
much as a girl—that is, he isn’t likely to.”

“No, he isn’t likely to,” the minister assented, a little doubtfully.

After the minister had gone, Miss Lucinda began to wonder what she should
do with the boy the rest of the morning. She found him in the kitchen,
his short legs stretched to their utmost, trying to capture two flies
buzzing on the window-pane. He paused in his exertions, and turned on her
with a beaming smile.

“Hullo! Is dinner ready?” he asked.

Miss Lucinda drew herself up. “We don’t have dinner till twelve o’clock,”
she said frigidly.

“Oh, that’s all right; you needn’t hurry,” the boy said pleasantly. “I’m
kinder grub-struck, but I guess I kin wait.”

Miss Lucinda stared at him in rebuke. “Perhaps you’d better go out and
play,” she suggested, “while I get dinner;” and off he went.

When the dinner-table was laid, Miss Lucinda rang her seldom-used bell
out of the back door, and the boy came in promptly, with quite a color in
his cheeks.

“My!” he exclaimed, staring at the neat, plentiful table, “ain’t this a
feed!”

“You’d better go and wash your hands,” Miss Lucinda suggested, and the
boy went cheerily to the sink, scrubbing himself vigorously and then
wiping his hands on the spick-and-span roller. Miss Lucinda groaned at
the great black marks on the towel, and went out into the kitchen to
turn it about so that she might not have to look at them through the
dining-room doorway.

“Mercy on us!” she cried in distress as she came out into the kitchen,
“you’ve left the door open. The house’ll be full of flies!”

“Now, don’t you trouble,” the boy said soothingly. “I’ll catch every
single fly that’s got in. I’m a great flycatcher, I am. I’m used to
flies.”

At the table, conversation did not at all flourish. Miss Lucinda had
heard of a boy’s appetite, but she had never dreamed of such awful
capacity as this young person displayed. After he had taken the first
keen edge from his hunger he laid down his knife and fork and looked at
her inquiringly.

“Should you mind if I was to call you aunt?” he asked smilingly. “You
know I useter live with my aunt, and I’m kinder useter sayin’ it.”

“I think it would be better if you called me Miss Tarbox,” Miss Lucinda
said, surprised, but not thrown off her guard.

“That’s rather long,” the boy said meditatively; “but I guess if I say it
often enough I kin git it Miss Tarbox, Misstarbox, Misstubox, Misstibox,
Miss—”

“Don’t say that over again, for goodness’ sake,” Miss Lucinda said
irritably. “What is your name?”

“Well, the whole of it is James Wilson, but I guess you’d better call me
Jim. I’m useter that.”

“What did you do this morning?” Miss Tarbox felt called upon to sustain
and direct further conversation.

“I went over to see the boy ’cross the street and we’re goin’ to play
Indian this afternoon. Did you ever play Indian?”

Miss Tarbox shook her head.

“You stick feathers all ’round your hat, and you make a fire and roast
potatoes, and yell and eat the potatoes. That boy is a mighty nice
feller. I told him I was stoppin’ with you and goin’ to have a dandy
time. I guess he don’t know you very well. I told him I thought you was
kinder hard to git acquainted with. He said we’d git our feathers out o’
his hen-yard, and I thought p’r’aps I might bring the potatoes. Do you
think you could let me have two potatoes? I won’t eat quite so much next
time.”

Miss Lucinda drew a long breath. “Yes,” she said, “I’ll let you have the
potatoes.”

“Now that’s real nice. I told him I thought you’d be willin’.”

As soon as dinner was over Miss Lucinda brought the two potatoes from the
cellar, but the boy did not go at once; he sat on a chair in the kitchen,
and watched her brisk movements as she cleared the table and made ready
to wash the dishes.

“Say, you’re awful smart, ain’t you?” he asked after a moment of
observation, and Miss Tarbox, somewhat overwhelmed did not reply.

He placed his elbow on his round knee and his chin on his small hand and
stared a few moments in silence.

“It looks awful kinder nice the way you hold up your head. Now, my aunt,
she kinder slumps along. She’s a real nice woman, you know, but she
don’t look’s though she had much gumption.”

Another silence.

“Say, what kin I do?” he asked next.

“Mercy on us!” ejaculated Miss Lucinda, “don’t ask me. I thought you were
going to roast potatoes.”

“I thought p’r’aps you might be kinder lonesome all alone, and I’d jest
as soon help you wash up. I’m useter it. I kin make beds and sweep and
wash dishes and do lots o’ things. Try me and see.”

“Thank you, I can get along very well; you needn’t help,” Miss Lucinda
said in grim accents of dismissal but the boy did not move.

“I s’pose you’re pretty busy,” he ventured presently.

“Well, yes, rather,” Miss Lucinda answered shortly.

“Do you usually have a real good time Fourth o’ July?” he went on.

Miss Lucinda gasped. “Well, no. I can’t say I do,” she answered in
mournful truthfulness.

“Now that’s funny,” the boy said, in a surprised tone. “Seem’s though the
country’d be an awful nice place to have a good time in, Fourth o’ July.
Mebbe it’s ’cause you never had nobody to cel’brate with; but you will
this year. You’ll have a real nice time, too; I always enjoy Fourth o’
July.”

Miss Lucinda gave a feeble sigh. “What do you usually do Fourth o’ July?”
she asked, with the desire to learn her coming fate.

“Well, last year I had one bunch o’ firecrackers that got fired off the
very first thing. I thought mebbe this year I’d earn ’nough money to buy
two bunches; d’you think I could?”

“Well, really, I don’t know,” Miss Lucinda said.

“And last year I went to see the percession, and the crowd jammed
me, and I didn’t see nothin’; but this year they’re goin’ to have a
percession out here, and that feller asked me to be in it. D’you suppose
I could?”

“I don’t know,” Miss Lucinda answered again.

“They’re goin’ to have reg’lar uniforms, red, white, and blue”—evidently
the boy took this as half consent—“and it’s goin’ to be jest great. I
s’pose it’d be a good deal o’ trouble to make me a uniform, seein’s
you’re so busy?”

“A soldier suit? Dear me, yes, I should say so!” There was no doubt now
in Miss Lucinda’s tones.

The boy drew a deep breath as he rose to go. “All right,” he said
cheerfully, “I’ll tell the fellers; p’r’aps they’ll let me march, jest
the same.”

When supper-time came and Miss Lucinda rang her bell again out the door,
she saw the boy coming along the path from the barn, helping Joshua, the
man-of-all-work, bring in the brimming pail of milk.

“Supper is ready,” Miss Lucinda said, and this time the boy washed his
hands without special order.

“Say,” he cried, waving the roller, “Josh’s goin’ to teach me how to
milk, and you won’t have to hire him any more. I kin do everything’s well
as not, can’t I, Josh?” But Joshua had, fortunately, gone and did not
hear this threat to usurp his position.

“Well, you do have orful good meals,” he said, sitting down opposite Miss
Lucinda’s handsome, severe figure. “I’m orful hungry, but I did have the
dandiest time to-day you ever heard of. The potatoes didn’t roast very
well, but the fire burned like fun. My Jiminy—”

“James!” called Miss Lucinda in an awful voice.

James opened his innocent eyes and looked at her, then fell to eating
with renewed vigor, and it was some time before he mustered courage to
finish his recital.

But when he came out into the kitchen and watched her moving back and
forth in the dusky light, Miss Lucinda somehow felt herself moved to open
conversation.

“You didn’t eat so very much for supper, James.”

“No, marm,” James answered promptly. “Don’t you remember them potatoes? I
was a-payin’ for ’em.”

“Mercy on us!” cried Miss Lucinda, and she went to the dining-room
and brought from the table the currant pie, of which the boy, to Miss
Lucinda’s amazement, had eaten only two pieces.

He ate the third generous slice she gave him, and again sat still,
watching her with round, admiring eyes as she moved about.

“I think it’s about time for you to go to bed now, James,” his guardian
said presently, and James rose promptly.

“Would you mind calling me Jim? It sounds kinder homesick to be called
James,” he said, with sudden wistfulness engendered, even in his boyish
spirit, by the shadows and the newness of the place.

“Good-night, Jim,” Miss Lucinda responded; but Jim still stood looking at
her with serious eyes.

“My aunt useter kiss me good-night. You don’t exactly look like the
kissin’ kind, and I ain’t neither, but—but I didn’t know, seein’ ’s
you’re so good to me, but—p’r’aps”—he flushed and shifted himself from
one foot to the other.

Miss Lucinda flushed, too, and looked greatly embarrassed, but hers was
no stony heart to refuse so gallant a suitor; she stooped and kissed him
awkwardly and flutteringly somewhere upon his forehead or hair; but
when she would have felt her duty over, he suddenly seized her in an
impetuous hug. He went upstairs quickly, and Miss Lucinda sat down in
her little rocking-chair with hot, red cheeks, and something deeper than
embarrassment brought a new light into her clear eyes.

“I think he tries hard to be a good boy,” Miss Lucinda said to the
minister when he next called, “but he does a great many things that are
rather startling, and now and then he says something he oughtn’t to.”

“Yes?” the minister said, in kindly interest.

“The very first day he got here, he swore at the table.” The minister
looked horrified. “Of course I spoke of it right off and he hasn’t done
it again. He was kind of excited about playing Indian, and I don’t
suppose he really meant it; he said”—the minister reddened and looked
away, and Miss Lucinda flushed—“he said ‘Jiminy.’” The minister drew out
his handkerchief and coughed slightly. “But, as I say, he hasn’t said
anything since, and I think I could get along very well if Fourth of July
wasn’t coming so soon. But what do you think? He wants a soldier suit,
and firecrackers, and all sorts of things. If only he hadn’t come till
after the Fourth! I never did approve of it. I always did think it was a
heathenish holiday,” and Miss Lucinda broke off feelingly.

After the minister had gone Miss Lucinda started to go to the village
store. Jim usually did the errands, but this was something that had been
overlooked, and he was at play, out of calling distance.

On Miss Lucinda’s return, as she came through the lane by a shorter road,
she heard voices in the field beyond; the speakers were hidden by a
hedge, but she recognized the tones as Jim’s and his playfellow’s across
the street.

“Say, can’t you march?” said a wheedling voice.

“No, I guess not,” Jim’s voice answered, a trifle dolefully.

“Why not? Won’t she make you a suit?”

There was a little pause before Jim answered: “Well, I don’t know’s I
care ’bout marchin’.”

“H’m! you needn’t say that. It’s cause that stingy old maid won’t make
you anything to wear, I know.”

There was a sudden movement on the other side of the hedge. “You call her
a stingy old maid again and you’ll see! She’s a handsome lady, she is,
and it ain’t none o’ your business if I don’t want to march.”

“H’m! you needn’t git on your ear so dreadful quick. I wouldn’t stand
up for anybody that only let me earn money enough to buy two bunches of
firecrackers. Why, I’ve got two packages! A great Fourth o’ July you’ll
have!”

“I’ve got some more money, but I ain’t goin’ to buy firecrackers; I’m
savin’ it for a s’prise. Say, look-a-here, you see, Miss Tibbox ain’t
never had a boy ’round, an’ she don’t understand ’bout Fourth o’ July,
that’s all.”

Miss Lucinda did not wait to hear the answer, but went swiftly back to
the village.

The night before the Fourth, as Jim was going to bed, Miss Lucinda said:
“Ain’t you going to march with the boys to-morrow, Jim?”

Jim shook his head and looked at her solemnly. “I ain’t got no suit. The
fellers won’t let you march without one. Never mind, I’ve given up lots
of things. My aunt wa’nt much of a hand for doin’ things, you know.”

Jim had never asked Miss Lucinda to kiss him good-night since that first
time, when he felt so markedly homesick, and certainly she would never
have offered to kiss him, so she merely said, as he took his light to go
upstairs, “Good-night, Jim.”

But she sat down in her rocking-chair, quite near the dining-room door,
with an expectant listening expression on her face. Suddenly there arose
a great commotion above, and Jim came tumbling down the stairs with wild
shrieks of delight.

“Oh, my gracious! oh, my gracious!” he cried. “Look-a-here, did you do
it? Ain’t they butes? I kin march now, can’t I? Oh, my Jimi—my gracious,
my gracious!” And he danced about the room, first on one foot and then on
the other, waving in one hand a wonderful pair of red, white, and blue
trousers, in the other a similarly gorgeous jacket.

Miss Lucinda was really frightened; she was not used to such
demonstrations of joy. But Jim stopped his dancing presently, and,
throwing his cherished outfit on the floor, he embraced her rapturously,
until she gravely extricated herself.

“I’m glad you like it, Jim,” she said a little stiffly.

“Like it!” Jim shrieked, throwing himself about in another wild
pantomime. “Like it! Oh, my gracious, I’m ’fraid I shall bust!”

“I think you had better go to bed now,” Miss Lucinda said, after a pause.

Jim gathered up his suit and looked at her anxiously. “Should you mind if
I was to git up dreadful early, if I didn’t wake you up?” he asked.

And Miss Lucinda, to her own amazement, found herself replying: “Well,
no; but don’t get up too early.”

And after Jim was asleep, and it was time for her to retire, she went
softly into his room to lay two packages of firecrackers on the chair
beside the gay garments.

Poor Miss Lucinda hid her head under the bed-clothes during the night,
and when there came an extra loud explosion thought of Jim. But at
breakfast-time he turned up safe and smiling.

“I never had sech a good time in all my life before. Say, Miss Tibbox,
did you mean all those firecrackers for me? Well, if you ain’t the nicest
woman in the world! I’ve got a s’prise for you, too. Just you wait and
see!” and he nodded mysteriously across the table at Miss Lucinda, who
felt a vague misgiving.

“Why didn’t you wear your soldier suit?” she asked.

Jim beamed upon her. “Why, I’m a-savin’ it. We don’t march till ten
o’clock. You don’t know how much nicer it is to be in a percession than
jest to look at it. I wish you could march, too,” he added politely. “But
you’ll come out on the piazza and watch us go by, won’t you?”

And Miss Lucinda promised to be on the spot.

If Jim had never passed another such day, it was as wholly unprecedented
in Miss Lucinda Tarbox’s calendar. Jim marched by the house as proud as
a peacock in his new soldier suit, and raised a cheer to Miss Lucinda
so loud and hearty that she retired blushing into the house. Then after
dinner there was nothing for Miss Lucinda but to come out on the piazza
and watch Jim fire off some of his crackers; and there the poor lady sat
cringing and shrinking and trying to smile each time Jim would shout,
“That’s the loudest of all!”

But the climax of the day was reached when Jim brought the minister home
to supper. How it happened that the minister appeared upon the scene at
tea-time, Miss Lucinda could not understand; but when he arrived, and Jim
whispered in a loud aside, “I thought p’r’aps he might stay to supper,”
there was no alternative but a cordial invitation, which the minister
accepted promptly. Miss Lucinda likewise never knew the remarks with
which Jim escorted the minister to the house. “She’s the very nicest
woman in the world,” he told the minister, “and I think she thinks
you’re a pretty nice sort of a chap.” The minister never repeated these
compliments of Jim’s to Miss Lucinda.

After tea, Jim’s secret was revealed; he had invested the larger part of
his small earnings in fireworks, which he was quite sure Miss Lucinda
would enjoy, and he had invited the minister to supper that he might help
him set them off. So Miss Lucinda came out on the porch in the darkness,
and the minister and Jim paraded about in the neat little garden in
front, and proceeded to diminish Jim’s purchases. Presently the minister
came up on the piazza and sat down beside Miss Lucinda, for the remaining
fireworks could easily be disposed of by Jim. But just as the minister
was considering whether the time was propitious for an advancement of his
own interests, there came a sudden sharp cry from Miss Lucinda, and he
turned to see a line of flame running about the paper belt of the gallant
little showman. The minister was quick in his movements, and was down
the path and had Jim in his arms and the fire smothered in a few moments,
while Miss Lucinda was by his side, sobbing and bending over Jim’s little
form.

“Oh, let me see him,” she cried; “the dear child! Is he hurt very badly?”

Jim wriggled a little in the minister’s arms, and opening his eyes,
smiled on her. “Now don’t you worry,” he said cheerily, “I ain’t hurt.”

“But I’m ’fraid I’ve spoilt my suit,” he added when the minister had
placed him on the lounge in Miss Lucinda’s little sitting-room.

“Oh, never mind the suit!” Miss Lucinda cried, and Jim looked up at her
in reproachful surprise.

But it was quite true that he was not hurt, though rather weak from the
fright, and presently he came out again, between the minister and Miss
Lucinda, to sit on the piazza and watch the neighbors’ fireworks.

Jim, on the little stool at Miss Lucinda’s feet, leaned his head against
her knee. “I don’t care, it’s been a fine Fourth o’ July,” he murmured.

“So it has,” echoed the minister; “don’t you think so, Lucinda?” But Miss
Lucinda’s only answer was a blush and a consenting silence.

“Do you mind now if I call you aunt?” Jim’s voice asked.

Miss Lucinda laid her hand gently on Jim’s head. “No, dear,” she said
softly; “no.”

“You might call me uncle,” suggested the minister.

Jim nodded brightly. “All right,” he said promptly; “then we’ll be a
reg’lar family.”

And the new uncle and aunt smiled in the darkness.




VIII

THE NEW FOURTH


OUR BARBAROUS FOURTH

BY MRS. ISAAC L. RICE

(From _The Century Magazine_, June, 1908.)

In his first book, Marcus Aurelius gratefully acknowledges his obligation
to Sextus of Chæronea for having taught him to “express approbation
without noisy display.” Alas! in all the centuries which have elapsed
since the time of this emperor-philosopher, we have not yet learned to
appreciate the wisdom of his counsel; and every holiday, in our country,
at least, is made the occasion of a strident outburst of hoodlumism.
Hallowe’en, Election Day, Christmas, New Year’s, Inauguration Day, and
Fourth of July, each witnesses our thoroughfares thronged with shouting
and disorderly crowds, provided with every noisy device from the tin
trumpet to the dangerous pistol, while shrieks of whistles shrill
maddeningly above the street clamor and the booming of bells. Accidents
occur, the sick are made worse by these frenzied demonstrations, and the
young fail to appreciate the significance of the day which is being so
unbeautifully celebrated.

Of all these “noise-fests,” the most shocking is the Fourth of July, and
its grim statistics probably furnish a sadder commentary on human folly
than that afforded by any other celebration in the world.

I often wonder what would be the emotions of a stranger, quite ignorant
of our institutions, if he arrived in our country—“God’s Country,” as we
affectionately call it—just before midsummer, and glanced over our great
newspapers. After reading some items, such as the following, would he be
apt to await a great and glorious anniversary, or the advent of a day of
strife and terror?

    The horrible Fourth will soon be here.... In all the big cities
    the Fourth of July is now looked forward to with apprehension
    and looked back upon with a shudder, and even with horror.

Or,

    The Board of Health has established supply stations of tetanus
    antitoxin throughout the city. The National Volunteer Emergency
    Service has established field dressing stations in the thickly
    populated sections. The hospitals also expect their usual busy
    day.

And then he would read head-lines like these:

                        THE NATIONAL BATTLE-FIELD
                      CARNAGE BEGINS ON HOLIDAY EVE
                           BLOODIEST FOURTH YET
                DEATHS AND INJURIES IN FOURTH OF JULY’S WAKE

After our stranger had grasped the fact that this was not the record of
a battle or other public calamity, but merely some details regarding the
manner in which a great nation commemorates the most solemn event in its
history, I doubt whether he would have an exalted opinion of a people
who could desecrate so noble a memory by so barbarous an observance.

The fitting celebration of Independence Day is a question on which
patriotic Americans are separated into two widely divergent parties, one
claiming that it ought to be observed as noisily as possible, the other
believing that our national birthday is too glorious an occasion to be
marred by din and disorder. Of course we know that even among those who
favor a boisterous observance there are many who cannot tolerate it
themselves, and escape to the country in order to avoid the tortures
of the “awful Fourth”; just as we know that a large proportion of the
noise-makers, including the small boy and the big boy, too, is heedless,
if not ignorant, of all that our holiday stands for, and thinks of it
only as a time when clamor may reign unrestrained.[17]

The figures which indicate the price that we pay for each of our yearly
celebrations are so appalling that one would suppose a knowledge of
them would be the most powerful deterrent to our annual massacre. This,
unfortunately, is not the case. For the past five years, the _Journal of
the American Medical Association_ has endeavored to collect statistics
setting forth what the celebration of the Fourth costs in life and human
usefulness; and although these are admittedly incomplete,—compiled,
as they are, almost entirely from newspaper reports instead of from
records of hospitals, dispensaries, and physicians,—they form the gravest
possible arraignment of the recklessness which is willing to pay such a
price for a “jolly day.” They show that during the celebration of five
national birthdays, from 1903 to 1907 inclusive, eleven hundred and
fifty-three persons were killed, and twenty-one thousand five hundred and
twenty were injured! Of the injured, eighty-eight suffered total, and
three hundred and eighty-nine partial, blindness; three hundred and eight
persons lost arms, legs, or hands, and one thousand and sixty-seven lost
one or more fingers. But these figures, startling as they are, convey
only a faint idea of the suffering, both physical and mental, which
went to swell the total cost of these five holidays; in this we must
also include the weeks and often months of anguish of the injured, the
suspense of entire families while the fate of some loved one hung in the
balance, the horror of a future of sightless years, the pinching poverty
now the lot of many because of the death or maiming of the breadwinner.

But putting aside the question of fatalities, of invalidism, of
blindness, of penury, the effect on the sick of a long continuance of
explosive noises, varying in intensity for days, or even weeks, and
deafening for twenty-four hours at least, merits serious consideration.
That the return of our “glorious Fourth” is looked forward to with dread
by our hospital-sick, as well as by those who are concerned in their
care, was made pathetically clear to me last summer when I interviewed
the superintendents of almost all our municipal institutions. One and
all deplored the needless suffering inflicted on their patients by our
barbarous manner of celebration, and begged me to bring the matter to
the attention of the Police Department.[18]

In this connection, a letter from Dr. Thomas Darlington, Commissioner of
Health, is of interest:

    I agree entirely with you in regard to the serious injury
    inflicted upon patients in the hospitals occasioned by the
    common practice of exploding firecrackers and torpedoes in the
    immediate vicinity.

Professor William Hanna Thomson took the same stand when he stated:

    I rejoice to hear that your Society for the Suppression of
    Unnecessary Noise proposes to have measures taken to lessen the
    explosions of firecrackers and firearms in the neighborhood
    of our city hospitals on the Fourth of July. Such noises are
    particularly injurious, both from their nature and their being
    of an unusual kind, to patients with any high fever, such as
    typhoid, and it will be a great service to humanity to have
    them suppressed, if not altogether, as most sane people will
    acknowledge, yet at least near institutions harboring a variety
    of patients.

One feature of our celebration which has not yet been touched upon is
the cost. Last year, New York City boasted of an outlay of four million
dollars, while the country as a whole burned up the huge sum of twenty
million dollars in fireworks. Finally, we must add the vast sum lost by
conflagrations before we are in a position to realize the whole price
that we pay for our day of jollity.

It is interesting to remark how strongly the press is beginning to voice
its protest against our “noise-fest”—a protest now largely seconded by
public opinion, although a few years ago it would have been regarded as
woefully unpatriotic. Here are a few excerpts gathered last July from
widely scattered papers, which are unanimous in decrying our present-day
observance:

    The most ridiculous and senseless celebration of any great
    national event.—_New York Commercial._

    What the connection is between explosives and patriotism, no
    one has ever undertaken to describe.—_Utica Press._

    The people must be educated to appreciate the folly of dynamite
    as a factor in patriotism.—_Chicago Daily Tribune._

    Time to consider how our annual worship of the God of Noise is
    to be abolished. This blatant and death-dealing Divinity long
    ago usurped the shrine occupied by Patriotism. Every year we
    carry and lay on his bloody altars human sacrifices, like the
    tribute of maidens to the Minotaur—only they are mostly boys.
    And so, year after year, the “Glorious Fourth” becomes more and
    more a dread festival of blood and fire and noise, of death and
    mayhem.—_Minneapolis Journal._

    The traditional gunpowder and dynamite orgies of Independence
    Day are wrong. Firearms and explosives have no place in any
    sane scheme of city life.—_Cleveland Plain Dealer._

    The day on which human folly too frequently runs amuck....
    That the achievement of our national independence, brought
    about through the necessary spilling of great quantities of
    blood, should be commemorated by the very general loss of
    life and limb is as unnecessary as it is deplorable.—_Union_
    (Manchester, N. H.).

    Americans are realizing that noises, maimed and wounded
    children, and big conflagrations should not be the sequence of
    the Nation’s birthday.—_Toledo Blade._

    What ought to be the most enjoyable day in the calendar, is
    made a day of general carnage and a day toward which adults
    look forward with dread and whose passing they look back upon
    with a sense of mighty relief.—_Pioneer Press_ (St. Paul,
    Minn.).

    It is the money burned up in useless and dangerous explosives
    that is wasted, serving no better purpose than to leave the
    city with a headache the morning after.—_Republic_ (St. Louis).

    The din ... is hideously vulgar and utterly uncivilized ...
    discreditable to those who make it and to the civil authorities
    who permit it.—_Evening Wisconsin_ (Milwaukee).

    I fain would haul down the red flag of our modern Fourth of
    July and, in its place, run up the flag of peace, quietude,
    rest, contentment, and personal safety.—_Life_ (New York).

    The total results of our last “jolly celebration” of
    Independence Day were 164 killed and 4,249 injured, many of
    them being maimed for life! Is this method of celebration
    really worth while?—_Journal Amer. Med. Assn._ (Chicago).

    How can any satisfaction be taken in the perversion of a
    holiday to purposes of disorder and destruction, and how can
    any pride be felt in methods of observance which inevitably
    condemn hundreds—if not thousands—to be shot, burned, maimed,
    and otherwise disfigured and tortured in propitiation of the
    great god of senseless uproar?—_New York Tribune._

As for those who are in favor of continuing our present mode of
celebration, I can find but one who has written openly in its defense,
and even then there is a suspicion that the article is ironical.

    It is better to shock the sensitive nerves of a few grown
    people than to have the boys and girls grow up molly-coddles,
    with the fear of gunpowder in their hearts and no appreciation
    of a boisterous holiday, rich in patriotic appeal, and full of
    the “rough house” spirit of healthy Americanism.

This, if seriously meant, reaches the height of absurdity; for if there
is one thing of which little children should have a wholesome dread, it
is gunpowder, and I know of no other country in which such a weapon is
put into the hands of babes.

It is customary with us to excuse ourselves for Fourth of July accidents
by putting all the blame on the small boy. This, however, seems scarcely
fair. The blame for much of the annual massacre rests not upon the
careless small boy, but upon the careless big parent who places in
his hand the instrument of destruction. And an even greater share of
the blame is due to public apathy, which not only allows the annual
suspension of sane and safe ordinances regulating the use of firearms and
explosives, but also permits the disorderly few to injure the health and
disturb the repose of the orderly many.

As proving that noise is the great desideratum in fireworks, a few
extracts from various catalogues will prove interesting. Here, for
instance, is a piece the figures of which, according to the thrilling
description, move about “whistling and screaming in fantastic, wild,
unearthly furore, terminating with a fusillading report,” and another
which bursts “with terrific reports that can be heard for miles,” while
a third explodes “with reports equal to six- and twelve-pound cannons,”
and a fourth like “an imitation rapid-fire Gatling-gun.” An appreciative
testimonial lauds a “Salute of LYDDITE SHELLS, nothing giving such a
tremendous report having ever before been heard in our celebration,”
while other goods are emphatically praised as being “loudest and best,”
or “big in noise.” One particular piece is noticeable because it consists
of a string of fifty thousand firecrackers. As corroborative of all
this, which tends to show that noise is what is desired above all else
in fireworks, comes this published interview with a dealer, which is
certainly illuminating:

    The exploding cane is always a winner so long as it is not
    suppressed by the police. Blank cartridges come up at the
    head of the list. Nothing gives a celebrator so much pleasure
    as flourishing a pistol and shooting several times in rapid
    succession. There is just one thing that determines the
    efficiency of any contrivance designed for celebrating the
    Fourth, and that is, the volume of sound it makes. For that
    reason the cannon firecrackers are popular, and always will
    remain so.

This, then, is what excites the patriotic fervor of the partisans of a
strident Fourth, though it does seem as if their enthusiasm would be
somewhat lessened in placing side by side with the above this extract
from the _Journal of the American Medical Association_, which considers
the causative factors of the aftermath of last Independence Day:

    Of the 102 deaths aside from tetanus, gunshot wounds caused
    twenty, giant crackers caused thirteen, and thirteen deaths
    were due to explosions of powder, torpedoes and dynamite. Ten
    deaths were due to falls or runaways caused by firecrackers....
    The limit of tolerance is reached, however, when we know that
    thirty-one persons were burned to death.... The principal cause
    of the most mutilating wounds is by far the giant cracker....
    This year 1,489 injuries, including thirteen deaths and eight
    cases of lockjaw, were due to the giant cracker.

It is a reflection scarcely calculated to gratify our national pride
that the United States is the only civilized country which observes the
greatest of its fête-days in such an uncivilized fashion. Our sister
republics, France, Switzerland, and Brazil, rejoice full as heartily as
we over their national birthdays, but they celebrate them in a sane,
safe, wholesome, and happy way, and not in our barbarous manner. As
regards the observance of the French fête, July 14th, Marcel Prévost, the
eminent writer, has kindly described it for me in the following letter:

    The fête of July 14th is, above all, in France, a day of
    popular rejoicing; politics do not enter into it. It affords
    an opportunity of illuminating the town-halls and public
    buildings, and of indulging in the pleasure of dancing in the
    open air. In a word, it is a huge kermess. It has always taken
    place in order and tranquillity. Accidents are rare, even in
    Paris. And since the review at Longchamps has humanely been
    arranged to take place at nine in the morning, instead of
    at noon, the troops do not run the risk of sunstroke, which
    sometimes saddened the early fêtes of July 14th.

The following touchingly beautiful account of the observance of
Switzerland’s birthday was sent me by Dr. Eugène Richard, Member of the
Council of State:

    Year by year the people of Switzerland keep the anniversary
    of 1291, which was in real truth the foundation of the
    Confederation. Does that treaty—founded by the inhabitants of
    the Forest Cantons, borrowing from justice her most equitable
    principles (even down to that of arbitration between states),
    and guaranteed by the rigid energy of its signers—receive a
    commemoration worthy of its splendid simplicity?

    No clamorous ceremony, to drown the voices of the past, instead
    of blending with them. We give proof of our remembrance of
    the First of August by a few brief manifestations during the
    closing hours of the day.

    This national solemnity, surprising as it may seem, finds no
    place in the list of legal holidays. No one interrupts his
    daily tasks, for such was the way with the men of 1291, who,
    returning to their homes, took up again the care of their herds.

    As night descends, the bells on all the churches are set
    to pealing in a sublime concert of gratitude, rising with
    penetrating poetry through the serenity and softness of a
    summer night. Shortly afterward bonfires are kindled along
    the heights. Here and there will be a modest illumination or
    rare display of fireworks. Occasionally an orator reminds the
    people of the significance of their rejoicing and holds up for
    imitation the character of our ancestors.

    Whoever witnesses this spectacle realizes the strength and the
    sincerity of a patriotism that, without clamor or ostentation,
    draws fresh life by reverting to its original sources.
    Switzerland lives in the heart of her citizens. A noisy
    demonstration would take from us the benefit of a thoughtful
    mood.

    In order to produce an impression both profound and salutary,
    national celebrations must needs have a pervading tranquillity,
    which enhances their dignity, and leads mankind to earnest
    thought.

According to a very charming letter from his Excellency, Señor Joaquin
Nabuco, Brazilian Ambassador, it appears that although his countrymen
do not observe their festivals with that calm, patriotic fervor which
characterizes the Swiss, and although they rejoice in noise as well as in
color, there is nothing to show that their holidays are marred by that
disorder and by those horrible lists of casualties and accidents which
disgrace the celebration of our great anniversary.

The following delightful description of Germany’s greatest festival, the
Emperor’s birthday, has been given me by Professor Hugo Münsterberg of
Harvard University:

    When I look backward to my boyhood days in Germany and ask
    myself from what sources my young patriotism was steadily
    supplied, I cannot value highly enough the influence of the
    patriotic celebrations in my school and my native town. The
    dearest memory belongs to the Emperor’s birthday. I know quite
    well that the present Emperor was born in January; but when I
    hear the word “Emperor’s birthday,” it still always awakes in
    me first the date of the 22d of March—the old Emperor’s day.

    Long before, the school planned everything for the grand
    day; patriotic and religious music, songs and patriotic
    declamations by the younger pupils, short dramatic plays
    with motives from German history, given by the older boys,
    and always an enthusiastic oration by one of the teachers.
    In Sunday clothes we gathered in the school; everything was
    decorated with flowers and garlands and flags, and the whole
    school continuously, year by year, was lifted up in a common
    pride and enthusiasm. Two or three of the happiest morning
    hours were devoted to the celebration, and the jubilant hurrah
    for the beloved Emperor at the end of the historic oration was
    the only sound of the day.

    Then we streamed out into the decorated streets, enjoyed
    the picturesque parades and went to the concert at the
    market-place, where patriotic marches kindled our youthful
    emotions. The afternoon belonged to parties at home, where
    school friends gathered and enjoyed their games with a historic
    flavor and the chocolate with a patriotic abundance of cakes.
    Quiet, mellow days they were, and any loud noise would have
    appeared to us boys as a desecration of the festivity; and yet
    the loyalty which I stored up in those March days of my boyhood
    still supplies me amply when I have, year for year on the 27th
    of January, to make my Emperor’s birthday orations to the
    German-Americans.

An interesting account of the manner in which Japan celebrates her fêtes
was kindly written for me by his Excellency Viscount Aoki, recently
Japanese Ambassador to the United States:

    In Japan we have three great national holidays. They are
    November 3d, the present Emperor’s birthday; New Year’s Day;
    and February 11th, the Day of the Accession of the Emperor
    Jimmu, the first ruler of the Empire of Japan.

    An illustration of the Emperor’s birthday celebration in
    Japan will be sufficient to give a general idea as to how
    our national holidays are celebrated at home, for there is
    little difference in the way of its celebration between the
    above-named three holidays, except in minor details:

    On the Emperor’s birthday all offices, schools, banks, and
    large business houses are closed. The national flag is hoisted
    on all public buildings, schools, and on most of the private
    houses all over the country. High dignitaries, both civil and
    military, who are present in the capital, proceed to the Palace
    of Tokio to present before the throne their congratulations
    for the occasion, while those in the country and abroad send
    their congratulatory messages by mail through the Minister for
    the Imperial Household. In every school all over the country
    the day is observed in a form appropriate to the occasion.
    One hundred and one salutes are fired from every fort in the
    empire. The imperial review of the army is in regular order
    of the celebration of the day, when hundreds of thousands of
    the enthusiastic public gather around the drill-ground and all
    along the imperial route to cheer their august and beloved
    sovereign and to witness the glorious military parade of the
    day, while all of his Majesty’s ships fire twenty-one salutes
    (otherwise known as the national salute) and appear in full
    dress. The Emperor entertains in the palace at breakfast all
    the foreign representatives and high dignitaries of the empire.

And now let us listen to what some of our prominent Americans, whose
patriotism none can assail, have to say about our present-day observance.
First “Mark Twain,” in whose heart of hearts the small boy is enshrined,
and who certainly would not needlessly curtail even one of his little
pleasures. Does he approve of our day of “burning” patriotism? No; for he
has written to me:

    I am with you sincerely in your crusade against the bedlam
    frenzies of the Fourth of July.

And William Dean Howells:

    I am glad that you have added to your noble and beneficent
    ambition to suppress all unnecessary noises the wish especially
    to deal with the barbarous and obstreperous celebration of
    the Fourth of July. I am sure that Confucius did not invent
    gunpowder, and that it was not Chinese _wisdom_ which gave us
    firecrackers. Until we cease to glorify our national birthday
    like a nation of lawless boys we shall have no right to claim
    that we have come of age, and the civilized world must regard
    us as savages until we stop behaving like them.

And one of our poets:

    It is good news that you are turning your attention to the
    subject of the irrational manner in which Americans celebrate
    their independence. I am sure you will not merely advocate the
    suppression of meaningless noise, and that you will indicate
    such fêtes, ceremonies, pageants, and celebrations in general
    as are rational and instructive; also, that you will hint at a
    broader and more inspiring use of the day than either arousing
    old and debasing international enmities or the display of
    indecent self-glorification.

    As to the suppression of Fourth of July noise, with its dangers
    to nerve, limb, and life, the whole sensible population will
    wish you a continuance of that success which has followed your
    efforts on a narrower scale in the metropolis. I am reminded
    that in the sweet and peaceful valley from which I write the
    national holiday is looked forward to with apprehension, on
    account of the dreadful, sleep-scattering noises of the night
    and dawn before. On the Fourth, why should we not have music
    instead of noise, art, instead of gunpowder? Every community
    in the United States will have occasion to bless your name and
    memory if you can do something substantial toward making more
    quiet and more ennobling the anniversary of the day that gave
    the Republic birth.

Here, too, is a letter from Dr. Weir Mitchell:

    If anything can be done to lessen the noise of the Fourth of
    July celebrations, it will also be efficient in lessening the
    amount of injuries inflicted by the desire of man and boy to
    make meaningless noises. Not only does it leave the Fourth of
    July as an annually recurrent unpleasant memory, but there
    is the same absurd tendency to extend the nuisance of noises
    into other days. Thus at present in this city, and I presume
    elsewhere, the first of the year is ushered in by a vast chorus
    of idiotic noises produced by steam-whistles, firecrackers, and
    horns, accompanied by a solemn bell-ringing, such as in old
    times called those who watched for the coming of the New Year
    to prayer.

That our Commissioner of Health fully recognizes the necessity of
bringing about a saner mode of celebration is shown by the following
letter:

    Your plan to include, as part of the activities of the Society
    for the Suppression of Unnecessary Noise, the question of a
    more sensible celebration of the Fourth of July, meets with
    my most hearty approval. The long list of killed and wounded,
    which comes as the result of what should be a day of patriotic
    inspiration, is certainly appalling, and indicative of how far
    we have strayed from its true spirit.

    Your efforts to induce the people of this country to
    celebrate its most joyous anniversary in a manner fitting and
    appropriate, provide an object which should enlist the sympathy
    and coöperation of all who have the welfare of their country at
    heart.

And finally ... I offer this letter from the Hon. Henry L. West,
Commissioner of the District of Columbia, which shows that even
officialdom is willing to risk the charge of lack of patriotism, if by
so doing our boys and girls may be saved from the horrors of a day of
catastrophes:

    I am thoroughly in sympathy with any movement which will result
    in decreasing the habit of carelessly using gunpowder on the
    Fourth of July and which will also result in a more quiet
    celebration of the day.

    In Washington the authorities have already taken a step in the
    right direction in forbidding the explosion of the so-called
    giant firecrackers, nor is it allowable to place torpedoes on
    the street railway tracks.

    I believe that the Fourth of July can be celebrated with as
    much patriotism and more sanity if the wanton use of gunpowder
    on that day is condemned.

And now, before taking up the question of what might be suggested as a
more reverent and appropriate mode of honoring our day of days, let us
look back a hundred years or so, and see how our first national birthdays
were kept. Here it is encouraging to learn that nothing resembling in
the least our wild orgy of noise was dreamed of. Indeed, had such a
suggestion been breathed to the sons and daughters of our Revolutionary
heroes, they would probably have felt that the plan savored more of
China, the land of noise and the home of the firecracker, than of their
own country, and have been profoundly shocked at the mere idea that
such an anniversary could receive so murderous a recognition. A glance
over the time-yellowed pages of the _Evening Post_, printed more than
a century ago, or those of the _New York Packet_, which was old when
the _Post_ was young, shows how differently the Fourth was observed
by those who had seen burst into full flower that glorious patriotism
which had given it birth. The proclamations, announcements, poems, and
advertisements which appeared in those July days of long ago are touching
in their patriotic, though grandiloquent, fervor. Here, for instance, is
a bit from an announcement of the Tammany Association which appeared in
the “Season of Fruit, Year of the Discovery, 310” (July 1):

    Brothers. This Day, like the Sun which illuminates it, sheds
    a bright and diffusive luster, and welcomes all to partake of
    its radiance. Once it witnessed the blood-stained field, the
    plundered town, the ravaged coast, the sinking warrior, the
    defenseless town, the despondency of our Guardian Genius. But
    the Great Spirit watched over the western clime, and now its
    approach is hailed with the incense of Peace; and the veteran
    rejoices in his scars, the hoary chief and his patriot sons
    assemble with congratulations where once the noise of battle
    was heard, and the Eagle towers aloft majestic and unawed.

In these days the celebration began with unfurling the flag, a salute of
thirteen guns and ringing of church-bells, followed by a procession and
exchange of courtesies between the Governor and the President. Then came
the march to church, where odes, addresses, anthems, and orations were in
order with, of course, the reading of the Declaration of Independence.
Next, luncheon, with more salutes and bell-ringing and then, evening
having come, performances in theaters and gardens and the meeting of
various patriotic societies. Everything connected with the performances
was patriotically reminiscent. In the gardens, transparencies and
fireworks portrayed temples of immortality, obelisks of heroes, and
figures of Justice, Fidelity, Fame, and Piety, all radiantly intermingled
with shining pictures of Washington and of the Arms of the United
States, with its brilliant stars, while at the theater, patriotic plays
were given, such as “Bunker Hill” or the “Death of Warren and the Glory
of Columbia” or the “Retrospect of the American Revolution.” This all
refers to New York, but it is probable that virtually the same observance
obtained in other large cities.

Let us now consider what might be substituted for our present-day mad
and dangerous celebration, which serves only to keep in remembrance one
feature of our great struggle, the cannonading and musketry-discharges
which shook the country during the arduous days of its birth. I sincerely
believe that our national birthday can be observed with heartfelt
patriotic rejoicing, and yet without the slightest danger to life or
limb, without any nerve-racking noise or display of hoodlumism, and
without any of the extravagant outlay which has characterized our former
celebrations. Flags can float, national music be played and sung in
places now given over solely to the deafening din of cannon firecrackers,
the Declaration of Independence be read at all of our public buildings,
where inspiring addresses may also be made, and street-displays, such
as processions with floats, beautiful as well as instructive, furnish
delightful object-lessons of the greatest events in our history. Then,
at night, we may have illuminations, both private and municipal, and
displays of fireworks in open places, where the exhibitions can be
conducted by experienced men, thus avoiding all danger of the shocking
accidents which now sadden our celebration. Let us, on this day, forget
the noise of battle and the passions of international strife, and
remember only the wonderful spirit of sacrifice, and patriotism, and
brotherhood which animated our Revolutionary heroes. Let us, who know
what the day means, endeavor to make it both memorable and illuminating
to those who do not, by opening the hearts of the children, of the poor
and ignorant, of the distressed and disheartened alien within our gates,
to at least a partial significance of what we honor in our glorious
festival. Let us enter personally into the work, giving tender endeavor
as well as means to the task of making the occasion the happiest of all
the year to the ignorant and the wretched. Let us give them a day of
liberty in the country or in the parks, where they will see our beautiful
flag floating everywhere about them, and where their untrained ears will
become accustomed to the ringing rhythm of our national melodies. Let
us give them mementos of the Fourth, such as flags and pictures of our
heroes and of those whom we love as well as honor. There let them listen
to the story of the birth of our Republic, and have it told simply and,
if necessary, in their own tongues, so that all can feel how great were
those who made the country free, and how wonderful is the boon of liberty
now extended to the oppressed of other countries.


A SAFE AND SANE FOURTH OF JULY

BY HENRY LITCHFIELD WEST

(From _The Forum_, August, 1909.)

A little more than a year ago the _Century Magazine_ contained a
vigorous and convincing article by Mrs. Isaac L. Rice, entitled “Our
Barbarous Fourth.” It was a protest against a condition of affairs in the
United States which had long attracted attention but which no one, up to
that time, had criticised in such emphatic terms. “The grim statistics
of the Fourth of July,” said the article, “probably furnish a sadder
commentary of human folly than that afforded by any other celebration in
the world.”...

It is true that a few thoughtful people had in more or less nonchalant
manner observed the terrible toll of death and injury which the evil
celebration of the day demanded. Quite a number of newspapers—notably
the _Chicago Tribune_—were questioning the wisdom of a method which
in one day had resulted in the death of 164 people, and the injury of
nearly 5,000. “How can any satisfaction,” asked the _New York Tribune_,
“be taken in the perversion of a holiday to purposes of disorder and
destruction, and how can any pride be felt in methods of observance which
inevitably condemn hundreds—if not thousands—to be shot, burned, maimed,
and otherwise disfigured and tortured in propitiation of the great god of
senseless uproar?” The _St. Paul Pioneer Press_ deplored the fact that a
day which ought to be the most enjoyable in the calendar had become a day
of general carnage; while the _New York Commercial_ characterized the
popular celebration as ridiculous and senseless.

Notwithstanding these occasional utterances of truth, which indicated a
growing sentiment, the fact is, that at the time of the appearance of
“Our Barbarous Fourth” there was only one city in the country wherein any
curb had been placed upon the insensate and reckless custom of observing
the Fourth of July with dynamite and gunpowder. The cemeteries and the
hospitals were claiming their victims and yet no one in authority seemed
courageous enough to call a halt for fear of being charged with lack of
patriotism. I believe, however, that the article in question appeared at
the psychological moment. It was so straightforward in its presentation
of the facts, so earnest in its appeal and so logical in its assertion
that there were numerous sensible ways of celebrating our national
holiday, that it made a profound impression everywhere. At any rate, the
fact is, that before that article appeared only one city in the country
had prohibited the sale and explosion of fireworks, while within a short
period after it had been printed the authorities in several cities took
radical action along the lines therein suggested. It is no exaggeration
to say that within the next ten years the old barbarous Fourth of July
will have entirely disappeared, and it is also within the bounds of
accurate statement to add that the one greatest individual factor in
accomplishing the much-needed reform is the author of the _Century_
article.

All this is by way of preface to the fact that the experiment of a safe
and sane Fourth of July was tried this year in the National Capital;
and in the belief that its details will prove of general interest, they
are herewith recorded. If, as now seems to be the case, we are on the
verge of a revolution in the customs which have been in vogue for half a
century, the methods by which the change is to be accomplished are not
without their value and significance.

The celebration of the national holiday in the capital a year ago had
been marked by so many accidents and fires that some protest against the
indiscriminate use of fireworks was uttered, and the Commissioners who
govern the city declared themselves in published interviews in favor of
a safer and saner observance of the day. No definite action was taken,
however, until last November, when the question became acute because
hundreds of dealers in fireworks in the city were naturally anxious
to know whether they would be permitted to handle explosives. Inquiry
of other cities brought forth the fact that Cleveland had already
enacted an ordinance forbidding the sale and discharge of fireworks,
and a copy of this ordinance was secured. In Washington, as ought to be
generally known, there is no common council or board of aldermen, but
all regulations governing the municipality are promulgated by the three
Commissioners under authority delegated to them by Congress. The question
whether Washington should undertake the experiment of a non-explosive
Fourth rested, therefore, with these three men, and it did not take
them long to reach their conclusion. One of them had, more than a year
previously, formally expressed his sympathy with the object sought to be
attained by the opponents of the barbarous Fourth, and his colleagues
were, happily, of the same opinion. In November, therefore, eight months
before the arrival of the holiday, the following regulation was enacted:

    “No firecracker, squib, or other fireworks of any kind shall
    be sold and delivered, discharged or set off within the city
    of Washington, or the fire limits of the District of Columbia,
    or in the more densely populated portions of said District;
    provided, however, on occasions of public celebration and
    exhibition fireworks may be discharged or set off on special
    permits issued by the Commissioners defining the time,
    place, storage and such other conditions to be observed in
    reference thereto as they may deem necessary to the public
    safety. No gun, air gun, rifle, air rifle, pistol, revolver,
    or other firearm, cannon or torpedo shall be discharged or
    set off within the city of Washington, or the fire limits of
    the District of Columbia, without a special written permit
    therefor from the Major and Superintendent of Police, nor
    within five hundred yards of the Potomac River, Eastern
    Branch, or Anacostia River, Rock Creek, or any public road,
    highway, school-house, building or buildings, shed, barn,
    outhouse, public park, reservation, graveyard or burial place,
    playground, golf course, tennis court, picnic ground, camp
    ground, or any place where people are accustomed to congregate,
    inclosure for stock, railroad track, outside of such fire
    limits for the District of Columbia, without the written
    consent of the owner or occupant thereof and a special written
    permit from the Major and Superintendent of Police.”

No law or regulation can, however, be effective unless it is sustained
by public sentiment. The Commissioners were fortunate in securing the
voluntary and enthusiastic support of the members of the Board of Trade
and the Chamber of Commerce, the representative local organizations,
and, in general, the citizenship of the capital was favorably disposed
to the new order of things. Committees were formed for the purpose of
providing two patriotic public entertainments, one in the morning to
consist of the reading of the Declaration of Independence and appropriate
addresses, and the other to include a fine display of fireworks at
night upon the ellipse south of the White House. The funds for the
latter were promptly supplied by public subscription, and the affair was
managed most successfully by a volunteer committee, no less than forty
thousand people witnessing the display. In the meantime, the residents of
various sections of the District undertook to uphold sympathetically the
Commissioners by devising their own collective celebrations. In Cleveland
Park, an attractive suburban district, there was a public meeting
with a programme of fireworks handled by experts, while Bloomingdale,
another well-settled section, enjoyed a day of athletic sports,
speeches and aerial fireworks. In short, the people of the District of
Columbia cheerfully accepted the proclamation, which was issued by the
Commissioners, inviting attention to the police regulations which had
been adopted “to provide against the dangers incident to the manner of
observing the Fourth of July and Christmas, which previously prevailed,”
and appealing “to the people of the District of Columbia heartily to
second their efforts by observing and counseling the observance of these
regulations.”

Nor were the entertainments already mentioned the only forms of
celebration. The _Washington Post_ conceived the idea of an automobile
floral-flag parade, and this event proved to be a genuine spectacular
and artistic success. There were over a hundred motor cars in line, and
the decorations were extremely novel and pleasing. One automobile was
reconstructed into an accurate representation of the Confederate ram
_Merrimac_, and was manned by young men in sailor costumes; another was
converted into a yacht with masts and sails; another was a floral boat
apparently drawn by an enormous white swan; and still another was in
the form of a pergola, decorated with wistaria vines and blossoms. An
electric machine which elicited the applause of the thousands who lined
the route of parade was apparently a huge wicker basket of pink roses, in
the center of which and surmounted by a canopy of roses was seated the
lady who operated the car. Another electric machine was a symphony in
red, white and blue. Altogether, the event proved to be a most unique and
beautiful celebration, and the committee of artists who awarded the cups
and other prizes, valued at $1,500, was confronted by a most difficult
task of selection. When it is considered that the affair was the first
of its kind in the National Capital, and was merely suggested as one
form of rational enjoyment, its successful execution occasioned deserved
felicitation, and when it is repeated next year, as it will be, the
national holiday will be made literally a day of delight.

The real value, however, of the experiment in the National Capital still
remains to be recorded. Instead of a long list of dead and injured,
there was not a single gunpowder accident in the city, and the two minor
alarms of fire were not occasioned by explosives. The contrast between
the recent Fourth of July celebration and those of previous years, is
strikingly shown in the following figures:

Number of persons treated at local hospitals for injuries from explosives:

                 July 4,  July 5,
  HOSPITAL.       1908.    1909.
  Emergency        25       0
  Casualty          6       0
  Freedmen’s        5       0
  Georgetown       10       0
  Providence        0       0
  Homeopathic      52       0
  Children’s        2       0
                  ---     ---
      Totals      104       0

Before the Fourth there was some division of opinion as to the outcome;
after the Fourth the public sentiment was practically unanimous as to the
humanity and wisdom of a safe and sane celebration. This sentiment found
editorial expression in the daily newspapers, and those communities which
are considering the advisability of abolishing the dangerous customs of
the past, might with great profit read these comments. They are here
incorporated almost in their entirety:

_Washington Herald_:

    Having celebrated the Fourth of July in a safe and sane manner,
    it is reasonably sure that Washington will not hereafter
    entertain the thought of going back to the stereotyped, unsafe,
    and insane way of observing the anniversary of the country’s
    independence. It is true that the day, for the most part, was
    so quiet as to be almost Sabbathlike; but, thanks to an ideally
    delightful spell of weather, every hour, from dawn until the
    night festivities concluded, was full of wholesome enjoyment.
    A welcome relief it was, indeed, to be spared the affliction
    of the ear-splitting firecracker and toy cannon nuisance and
    kindred evils that made other Fourths so hideous. And a more
    welcome relief still is the knowledge to-day that Washington,
    at least, has not a long hospital list of maimed and suffering
    victims of the reckless use of explosives.

_Washington Times_:

    On the day following the Fourth, it will be difficult to
    find many people who will not give their approval to the
    innovation. Nobody’s home was burned up, nobody succeeded in
    killing himself or his neighbor; there are no incipient cases
    of lockjaw under observation. The tendency to those other
    forms of disorder which grow out of indulgence in the cup that
    cheers—and perhaps deafens—was less marked than ever before.
    The police and the hospitals alike had an easy time of it. Not
    a single accident worthy the name, of the distinctive variety
    which has made Independence Day an occasion of carnage and
    terror, took place in Washington. That is a remarkable record.

    Safety and sanity, in short, vindicated themselves to
    perfection. Promiscuous noise was simply impossible because of
    the strict prohibition of the sale and use of fireworks and
    other abominations in the racket-making line. Altogether, it
    was a glorious day, and it is sincerely to be hoped that it
    will come in similar fashion once per annum, and in time lead
    people to a cheerful ability honestly to rejoice that their
    country did attain its freedom.

    Papers in unsafe and insane communities please copy.

_Washington Star_:

    After yesterday’s experience it is doubtful whether Washington
    will ever return to the old customs of Independence Day
    celebrations. The “safe and sane” Fourth idea was carried out
    in a manner to please practically the entire community, to
    give some form of entertainment to the greatest possible number
    throughout the day, without contributing a single accident of
    any kind to the records.

    Taken in detail, yesterday’s celebration features were
    calculated to please all classes. For those who wished to dwell
    seriously upon the patriotic aspect of the occasion there was
    the open-air meeting, where exercises appropriate to the day
    were held. For the children there was no lack of amusement,
    with the daylight fireworks diverting them on three different
    occasions. The floral automobile parade was a novelty that drew
    large numbers to the line, while the day was appropriately
    closed with an exceptional exhibition of fireworks, concluding
    with the illumination of Pennsylvania Avenue.

    An ideal day in overhead conditions, yesterday afforded the
    best opportunity to try the new idea of Independence Day
    celebration. In consequence of all the arrangements and
    restrictions there was a remarkable lack of noise from morning
    till night. There were no fires and the hospital ambulance was
    less busy even than on ordinary occasions. The policemen had an
    easy time, being occupied chiefly in preserving lines at the
    various points of congregation. There was a noteworthy lack of
    public intoxication. In short, Washington demonstrated that it
    can enjoy itself in a dignified, decent manner.

    With the experience of yesterday in mind, the authorities
    and citizens who engage in such enterprises can proceed next
    year to organize an Independence Day celebration that will be
    even better. It has been proved that it is possible to stop
    the promiscuous discharge of firecrackers and other forms of
    explosives. This is in itself an immense advantage. There is no
    reason to doubt the ability of the Commissioners to maintain
    order in the same manner next year. It may be suggested that
    the 1910 programme should include more public music of a
    patriotic character at intervals during the day and that the
    chief feature of the occasion be some form of historic pageant.

In the face of this splendid and sensible record, it is appalling to read
the reports from other cities. The death of Arthur Granville Langham,
uncle of the Baroness von Sternberg, which occurred in Louisville, as the
result of the explosion of a cannon cracker, was especially tragic, but
the occurrences in other municipalities are none the less sad because the
victims were not as prominent in social and financial circles. Here are
some of the figures:

    NEW YORK. Five killed, 197 injured by fireworks, 82 injured
    by pistols, 23 injured by cannons and 3 injured by torpedoes;
    also, 116 fires started by explosives. Notwithstanding this
    list of victims, one of the most prominent New York papers
    remarked that New York had broken all records for a safe and
    sane Fourth of July.

    PHILADELPHIA. Five dead, 3 fatally injured, 8 seriously injured
    and 420 painfully injured; 80 fires.

    ST. LOUIS. Four dead, 205 injured.

    WILKESBARRE, PA. Four dead.

    PITTSBURG. One dead, 295 injured; fire loss, $50,000.

    MEMPHIS, TENN. A crippled newsboy burned to death.

    WHEELING, W. VA. One dead, 50 injured.

    BUFFALO. Fifteen children injured, 40 fires.

    BOSTON. One hundred and ten persons injured.

    TOLEDO. Boy’s left hand necessarily amputated and a
    fifteen-year-old boy blinded for life.

    KANSAS CITY. One death from lockjaw.

    ELMIRA, N. Y. Two deaths from lockjaw.

    WOONSOCKET, R. I. One dead and a dozen persons injured.

Other cities, without regard to section, afford a painful repetition
of casualty. It seems strange that this annual holocaust should be
tolerated. There is not a civilized country in the world which pays such
a fearful debt to alleged patriotism as the United States. There is no
question as to the devotion of the Japanese to their country, and yet
their three national holidays are not marred by sad fatalities. Germany
celebrates the Emperor’s birthday with the greatest enthusiasm, but
without wholesale death and injury. France is patriotic, and yet France
observes its festal days in a safe and sane fashion. In the City of
Mexico, as the writer knows by personal experience, the celebration of
Independence Day is a great popular success, and yet not one firecracker
is exploded. The experiment in Washington demonstrates that dynamite and
gunpowder are not essential to a thorough and patriotic enjoyment of the
day. Surely the time will come when other cities will appreciate the
importance of celebrating in some manner which will appropriately mark
the day, and yet not leave a sanguinary trail of dead and wounded.

It goes without saying that the safe and sane method will not be
departed from in the National Capital. In that city, at least, there
will be an example of common sense which other municipalities might well
emulate. There will be ample opportunity for the expression of patriotic
sentiment, unaccompanied by death and disaster, and in less than a
decade the people will look back to the ancient and barbarous customs,
and wonder how they were ever tolerated for a single hour. Next year new
methods of entertainment will be devised, and more consideration will
be given to the children. This year the pupils of the public schools
sang patriotic songs at the various gatherings, and the children enjoyed
the automobile parade and the fireworks. The Fourth of July, however,
is essentially Young America’s day, and in any programme arranged by a
municipality especial consideration should be given to the little ones.
With this detail not overlooked, there will be no question of the real
success of any Fourth of July celebration. Certainly the experiment which
the National Capital has successfully inaugurated has proven worth while;
and if the example is generally followed by other cities, there will
be safety and sanity everywhere, nor need the splendid fervency of our
full-blooded patriotism suffer loss.


THE NEW INDEPENDENCE DAY

BY HENRY B. F. MACFARLAND AND RICHARD B. WATROUS

(As Observed at Washington, D. C., 1909.)

The programme for the day provided for a display of daylight fireworks
at 7th and Pennsylvania Avenue, a central point with park surroundings
and no nearby residences, from 9:30 until 10:30 in the morning; then the
public meeting at the same place, surrounding the new memorial of the
Grand Army of the Republic and its founder, Dr. Stephenson, where Senator
Owen, of Oklahoma, made an oration, the Declaration of Independence was
read, the “Star Spangled Banner” and “My Country, ’Tis of Thee” were
sung, and the school children sang other patriotic songs, and the United
States Marine Band volunteered and gave music. After this there was
another display of daylight fireworks. At least 5,000 people, chiefly in
family groups, attended the meeting and saw these fireworks exhibitions,
and the children were delighted with the shows new to Washington. At
half past two in the afternoon on the great ellipse south of the White
House, at least 10,000 men, women and children listened to a band concert
and watched another hour’s exhibition of the daylight fireworks, the
grown-ups enjoying, as much as the children, the flags, balloons, paper
animals, birds and fishes, liberated by the bombs high in air. Later
in the afternoon a fine parade of automobiles decorated with flags and
flowers, and arranged by the _Washington Post_, and for which it gave
most of the prizes, passed up and down Pennsylvania Avenue, crowded by
spectators, and around the Capitol and White House and down to Potomac
Park where the judges awarded the prizes. In the evening there was
an elaborate display of fireworks on the ellipse south of the White
House, followed by a beautiful illumination of Pennsylvania Avenue. The
newspapers estimated that between 40,000 and 50,000 people saw these
night exhibitions. Never was there a more cheerful or good-tempered
crowd. Apparently the young and old thoroughly enjoyed the whole day
which had a picnic character for most of them. Several of the suburban
communities organized their own fireworks exhibitions and some had public
meetings as well.

The experience of the day suggested additions and improvements for
the celebration of the next Independence Day. Historical pageants, a
regatta, more field sports, more band concerts, and a wider distribution
of the celebration points are among the things suggested for next
year. The Joint Committee on Arrangements has already taken steps to
provide a permanent organization to prepare for future celebrations,
the Commissioners having announced at once that there will be no repeal
or amendment of the regulation prohibiting the old barbaric methods
of celebrating the day. The new order of things met the approval of
President Taft who, upon being told by the Chairman of the Joint
Committee, the plans for the celebration, wrote the following letter,
which was read at the public meeting:

                          THE WHITE HOUSE, WASHINGTON, July 3, 1909.

    _My Dear Mr. Macfarland_:

    I have your letter of July 1st with respect to the celebration
    of the Fourth of July. I am very sorry that I shall not be in
    the city on that day because of a previous engagement; but I am
    heartily in sympathy with the movement to rid the celebration
    of our country’s natal day of those distressing accidents that
    might be avoided and are merely due to a recklessness against
    which the public protest cannot be too emphatic.

                         Very sincerely yours,

                                               (Signed) WM. H. TAFT.

    Hon. Henry B. F. Macfarland,
        Commissioner of the District of Columbia.

This letter, sent out by the Press Association with a brief account
of the celebration, must have helped the cause of the “safe and sane”
celebration of Independence Day everywhere.


NEW FOURTHS FOR OLD

BY MRS. ISAAC L. RICE

    “When you are past shrieking, having no human articulate
    voice to say you are glad with, you fill the quietude ...
    with gunpowder blasts, and rush home, red with cutaneous
    eruption of conceit and voluble with convulsive hiccough of
    self-satisfaction.... It is pitiful to have dim conceptions
    of duty; more pitiful, it seems to me, to have conceptions
    like these of mirth.”—_John Ruskin._

When the preparations for the celebration of a great anniversary are
identical with those for a battle, it is time to pause and reflect
whether a better observance of the day might not be advisable—to ask
ourselves whether one might not be planned which would honor and not
dishonor a glorious memory.

When Physicians, Boards of Health and Hospital Superintendents annually
prepare for the reception and treatment of hundreds, or rather thousands,
who will—before the close of the day—be brought in torn, burned, blinded;
when undertakers prepare for the hideous aftermath of our National
Birthday; when hundreds of thousands of the sick look forward with dread
to the recurrence of this season of noise, which to them brings so much
distress; when fathers and mothers all over the country shudder at the
thought of what the Fourth may bring to their dear ones, I believe
that one is justified in characterizing as a national disgrace that
pseudo-patriotism which is responsible for so much agony.

It is impossible to exaggerate the stigma of shame incurred by the
intelligent, adult proportion of the population in deliberately and
scientifically preparing for the massacre and maiming of the youthful,
ignorant and heedless members of the community. One city, for instance,
added twenty-six surgeons to its ambulance corps, while another engaged
twelve distributors of tetanus antitoxin, had field dressing stations
prepared by its National Volunteer Emergency Service and sent around
fifteen hundred vials of antitoxin serum to its hospitals. And thus many
cities anticipated the return of their Day of Carnage, preparing to bind
wounds and lacking the courage required to insist on the passage of
drastic prohibitive ordinances which would have rendered impossible the
shedding of blood.

I am sure that the thanks of all are due to one of our medical
publications which, for years past, has compiled statistics upon
statistics, based upon the price that we pay for our present-day mad
celebration of the Fourth, for without the splendid work of the _Journal
of the American Medical Association_ we should be unable to estimate the
cost of our annual holiday. As for the figures, so laboriously compiled,
they are simply amazing. To think of fifteen hundred and thirty-one
deaths and thirty-three thousand and seventy-three accidents, the fearful
sacrifice voluntarily offered by us, within the last seven years, to
our false ideals! And yet these tables, shocking as they are, give so
inadequate an idea of the suffering involved! For of these fifteen
hundred and thirty-one deaths, practically none came painlessly, almost
all being accompanied by the convulsions of tetanus, the torments of
fire, or the shock of injuries which changed healthy, happy children into
shapeless, agonizing horrors. While as for the thirty-three thousand and
seventy-three who were injured, but not fatally, how many are dragging
out their wretched lives, blind, maimed or crippled!

What, perhaps, is the saddest feature, is the fact that almost all
the victims of the Fourth are children, whose youth and ignorance and
inexperience and helplessness would certainly seem to merit all due
protection at our hands. Poor little ones, who play delightedly with
danger! And then how many among the victims of the Fourth are those who
have not been “celebrating,” but who have been shot down or burnt to
death by the wanton recklessness of Independence Day “Patriots” (God
save the mark!). Bullets, cannon-crackers, blank cartridges, and strings
of Chinese crackers spare none. Little babes have had their heads torn
open, mothers have been killed as they sat beside their children, scores
of girls have been burnt to death by having lighted firecrackers or
fireworks thrown in their direction. Runaways have been frequent because
hoodlums love to throw great “bombs” under frightened teams, and one of
the merriest sports has been to place large torpedoes on car-tracks. In
Vincennes (Indiana), for instance, one Fourth was “celebrated” by placing
boxes of explosives on the tracks, by means of which car windows were
shattered, passengers terrified and injured, and traffic blocked for
hours; after these boxes had all been picked up it was found that two
barrels of explosives had been collected. In Boston, only two years ago,
seventy arrests were made for using firearms, while in Pittsburg a party
of rich, young hoodlums terrorized the holiday crowds by dashing along in
an automobile, firing volleys of shots up and down the streets and into
the shops. Pittsburg’s arrests July 4, 1907, numbered 300. But, then,
what can we expect when we repeal for a period of twenty-four hours
almost all laws regarding safety and sanity?

As for the licensed recklessness, responsible for so many accidents,
the recital of some of the mad acts to which it has led in the past is
simply incredible. Some of these acts were: the throwing of dynamite
bombs and giant crackers and the firing of revolvers into holiday crowds,
the tossing of lighted firecrackers into the laps, or against the thin
clothing, of women and girls, resulting in their being roasted to death;
the filling of pipes and tin cans with dynamite, or the stuffing of
bottles with lighted firecrackers—all with inevitable consequences.
These are but a few of the acts which caused these 33,073 accidents, but
the excuse for all was always the same—Patriotism! If this, however,
is Patriotism, then it recalls—with but a slight variation as to
meaning—that utterance of Dr. Johnson’s: “Patriotism which is the last
refuge of the scoundrel.” However, it is not Patriotism, but only craving
for noise and excitement and danger which kills and blinds and maims on
our Day of Carnage. Some, indeed, go so far as to declare that the usual
celebration of the Fourth is “due to desire to break loose into a day
of savagery and wallow in the unusual.” Perhaps, if a stop is not soon
put to this mad orgy, we shall find ourselves changing the words of our
National Anthem, as suggested by one of our dailies, and singing:

    “My country, ’Tis of Thee,
    For Thou hast Crippled Me.”

However, it is not Patriotism but Hoodlumism and the desire to revel in a
day from which all sane and safe restrictions have been removed, which
may be said to guide most of the celebrants on the Fourth, for most of
them are undoubtedly ignorant of its glorious significance. That this is
true was amusingly shown in one of our large eastern cities where between
thirty and forty thousand children were asked in the public schools why
they celebrated the Fourth of July. The favorite answer was said to have
been “For shoots,” others were: “For a band,” “For chicken to eat,” and
most astounding of all “For the King of the Jews” (the similarity of
sound between Jew and July doubtless suggesting the last).

The duration of our “noise-fest” varies in different localities, in
some being limited to a few hours, in others being permitted to extend
over several weeks. Where this premature celebration is allowed, it
naturally entails great suffering on the sick, not to speak of the
additional danger incurred by the youthful participants. It is this early
start which, doubtless, prompted the remark: “The Fourth of July is the
only holiday which begins before it happens.” As for the celebration
proper, it generally starts on the evening of the third and lasts until
the morning or the afternoon of the fifth. In some cities, however,
it does not begin until midnight, in others not until four o’clock in
the morning. However, even where the noisy period is the shortest, the
suffering borne by our hospital patients is sufficient to excite the
sympathy of all those with whom they come in contact.

Regarding the monetary cost of our celebration, New York City is reported
to have spent about $14,000,000 on the celebration of two holidays, with
a resultant loss of 11 persons killed and 768 injured. As for the total
monetary loss to the whole country, it can scarcely be calculated, nor
can the fire-loss be estimated. Regarding the latter, however, I have
been enabled, through the courtesy of Mr. Miller, General Agent of the
National Board of Fire Underwriters, to obtain a few figures which show
that during five years (from 1898 to 1902 inclusive) there were 4,827
fires in the United States due to fireworks; in Massachusetts from 1902
to 1906 inclusive there were 278 fires due to the same cause; and in
Boston in one year, 1906, 72 took place. But quite apart from the effect
of these conflagrations on our fire-loss (which is about nine times as
high as that of the chief countries of Europe—$3 per capita as against 33
cents), many accidents might perhaps be traced to carelessness engendered
in the young by the annually repeated spectacle of a whole community
playing with fire and explosives. I firmly believe that this one day of
dangerous license exerts a pernicious effect upon the other three hundred
and sixty-four days of the year.

An example of what an enthusiastically patriotic and yet sane and safe
holiday observance can be, was given last May, when England and her
colonies celebrated “Empire Day.” This fête was observed by tens of
millions, scattered over one-fourth of the world’s surface, and yet not
one death was reported—not a single accident marred the glory and the
happiness of the day. In this splendid world-pageant, the citizens of
to-morrow were the chief actors, and it is estimated that fully eight
millions took part. Children in long procession, thousands of them in
uniform, wearing flags on their breasts and carrying them aloft in an
endless blaze of color, marched along to render homage to the Union
Jack, which fluttered out above their heads as the little soldiers were
reviewed, or as they sang the National Anthem. The floral emblem of the
day was the daisy or, failing that, the bachelor’s button, marigold
or marguerite—the watchwords were “Responsibility, duty, sympathy,
self-sacrifice.” In addition to the National Anthem, Rudyard Kipling’s
“Children’s Song” was also sung by millions of little ones:

    “Lord of our birth, our faith, our pride,
    For whose dear sake our Fathers died,
    O, Motherland, we pledge to thee
    Head, heart and hand through years to be.”

As for France, everybody knows how joyfully it enters upon the
celebration of its Day of Liberation, July 14th. Military reviews,
artistically beautiful street decoration, free theatrical and operatic
performances, music, splendid displays of fireworks from the bridges, and
public dancing in the streets and squares, make up a day of happy and
sane observance—a huge kermess. Perhaps no other country celebrates its
birthday with quite the same stern simplicity, the same touching faith as
Switzerland, when on August 1st, no outward manifestation of the national
thanksgiving is remarked, except in the ringing of bells and the blazing
of bonfires on the mountain peaks, or in the singing of a few inspiring
songs. The whole nation seems to be listening to the voices of the past,
while continuing its daily tasks, this sturdy band of mountaineers! And
thus with the celebrations of yet more European countries, Germany,
Sweden, Denmark and still others, everything is marked by sanity and
order, and yet by true thanksgiving and joy.

But although the American abroad may well blush with shame in comparing
our “Horrible Fourth,” our “Tetanus Day,” our “Annual Massacre,” our
“Modern Massacre of Innocents,” our “Carnival of Lockjaw,” our “Bloody
Fourth,” or our “Day of Carnage,” with the fête days of other lands,
let him take courage, for at last it really seems as if “Explosive
Patriotism” were “on the run.” Throughout the Union, scores of cities
have already passed or are considering the passage of restrictive or,
better still, of prohibitive ordinances, and countless organizations are
getting into line in their efforts to substitute attractive features,
such as children’s processions and merry-making, pageantry, musical
festivals, picnics, and other safe observances for our present orgy of
death. In order to show at a glance what has already been gained by
legislation in preventing Fourth of July accidents, let us place side
by side the results obtained a few months ago in two groups of cities.
In the first let us put Washington, Cleveland, Baltimore and Toledo,
which cities protected by prohibitive or restrictive ordinances, gave
last Fourth of July a total of twelve accidents. The other four, New
York, Philadelphia, Boston and St. Louis, which were all relatively
unprotected, gave a total of thirteen hundred and ninety-seven accidents,
or an average of almost three hundred and fifty apiece. Drastic
ordinances and stern enforcement are required if we are ever to down our
National Disgrace.

Let us protect our little ones from death and danger, and then the next
step will be to learn to express “social ideals in action,” for as Mr.
Luther Gulick so well says: “If there is any one thing, any one occasion,
in connection with which there should be national community expression,
it should be in connection with our celebration of American independence.
This constitutes not only the pivotal point in the history of American
institutions, but is the pivotal idea upon which democracy rests.”

Nothing is more inspiring than love of country, therefore let us advocate
a “religion of patriotism” and do away with a false death-dealing
patriotism which, annually, on our National Birthday disgraces us in the
eyes of the whole civilized world.


AMERICANIZING THE FOURTH

(A Suggestion for a Pageant of Liberty.)

BY ROBERT HAVEN SCHAUFFLER

The old, undemocratic idea of honoring the birthday of American
independence is embodied in annual explosions of barbarism which have
already done to death many more persons than the Revolutionary War
destroyed. Indeed, our peaceful celebration seems as much more dangerous
than the old style of warfare as small-pox is more dangerous than
chicken-pox.

Our new festival in honor of Liberty is—or is soon to be—very different.
Instead of a day of pseudo-patriotism,—a Moloch-day sacred to blinding
and maiming our little ones, to shredding and roasting them alive,
blowing them to bits or allowing them to struggle to their death in
the horrible clutch of tetanus—there is proposed a day of the deepest,
fairest, most enthusiastic, most genuine patriotism; a day of emphasis
not upon erratic individualism but upon national solidarity; a day of
fun yet of education and inspiration to old as well as young and to all
the nations that are now being fused in our gigantic melting pot. In a
word, the new movement aims, as it should, to make the Fourth our most
profoundly _American_ holiday.

The recent rise of the Independence Day pageant is a by-product of
two wide twentieth century movements: the new classicism and the new
democracy. The new classicism is behind the current tendency of certain
of the arts to react from the rich, vague elaboration of an exaggerated
romanticism toward plain, clearly organized simplicity. In a word, it
is trying to restore a normal balance between the emotional and the
intellectual elements in art. In music this movement is led by Max Reger,
the modern Bach; in architecture it is felt in the _Art Nouveau_ and, in
America, in such significant buildings as the New York Library and the
Pennsylvania Terminal; in literature in the recent rebirth of the drama,
of which the pageant is a near relative. For the pageant has been defined
as “a dramatic presentation of the history of a community or of the
development of a phase of civilization, given by the people themselves.”

The movement called the new democracy is slightly older. Under President
Roosevelt this country discovered a new and more vital meaning in the
old term “democracy.” And it has not taken us long to find out that on
Independence Day the square deal is less thrillingly symbolized by the
maiming and slaughter of innocent thousands through the meaningless
cracker and pistol than by the coöperation of all nationalities and
social grades on our shores in great, concerted movements, large with the
meaning of the past, the present and the future America, and glowing
with the local colors of the many peoples that have made and are to make
this nation.

The inevitable medium for such expression is the pageant. And though
this form of celebration is still in its early infancy and has not yet
attained even the modest measure of clarity already reached in other
arts by the new classicism, nor even the puny measure of real democracy
exhibited to-day by our “square deal” renaissance, yet it is quite as big
with promise as they.

The Pageant of Liberty, which is here proposed, is based on the idea that
America was the pioneer in that modern struggle for liberty which has
played such a striking part in the world’s history since 1776. Our War of
Independence inspired the French Revolution which, in turn, brandished
the torch of liberty through Europe during the nineteenth century until,
in our day, the flame has spread to other continents.

This Pageant consists of a parade of simple floats which may or may not
end in a dramatic and choral performance or “masque” in some athletic
field or fair ground or stadium. The floats and their costumed characters
are to be the actors in this masque.

These floats need not be elaborate or expensive or hard to construct. In
most cases all that is required is a plain large truck, festooned with
simple garlands, and with the wheels hidden in oak branches. This truck
carries the necessary characters, dressed, of course, in the costume of
the period.

There need be none of those complicated, elaborately colored, pyramidal
structures of “staff” which endangered the success of the Hudson-Fulton
Celebration in New York City. For they are difficult and costly to
prepare and doubtful of effect. The effect sought should be pictorial
rather than sculpturesque. In many cases a single small platform or table
is the only “property” required.

The floats in procession represent the history of the modern struggle for
liberty. This history, however, may be depicted as fully or as sketchily
as the particular resources of each place suggest, each foreign colony in
a town working up its own float under central supervision.

In our day most American cities and towns have a large percentage of the
foreign born. Let us suppose, for example, that a certain large town
consists of the following nine nationalities: Americans, French, Irish,
Servians, Germans, Greeks, Hungarians, Italians, and Persians. In that
case its particular pageant would consist of at least ten floats, each
attended on foot or horseback by its appropriate escort of the same race,
preferably in national costume, and by bands of music playing—perhaps on
native instruments—those national airs most nearly identified with the
particular historical event set forth.

I. THE AMERICAN float will naturally head the procession, for precedence
in this pageant is fixed by the historical order in which the various
struggles for liberty occurred.

The American float might represent the Fathers sitting about a table and
signing the Declaration of Independence, with the Liberty Bell hanging
aloft. Or it might be boat-shaped, with Washington in the bow, crossing
the Delaware and tattered soldiers straining at the oars or poling away
at imaginary ice-cakes.

The other floats would follow in this order:

II. FRANCE. King Louis XVI is forced to recognize General Lafayette,
the commander of the new National Guard, on July 17, 1789, and affixes
to his own royal garments the tricolor cockade of red, blue and white,
the symbol of liberty. This event occurred three days after the storming
of the Bastille, a subject that would not lend itself well to pictorial
treatment.

III. IRELAND. Some incident from the Rebellion of 1798. The float
might be in honor of the patriotic Society of United Irishmen and of
their founder, Theobald Wolfe Tone. Or it might represent the dramatic
betrayal, on May 19, 1798, of Lord Edward Fitzgerald, the promised leader
of the revolt.

IV. SERVIA. Some incident from the splendid rebellion of 1804 when
the Serbs, who had been galled by the Ottoman yoke for more than four
centuries, rose and drove the Turkish _dahis_ out of Servia. Their two
leaders were Black George and Milosch who have been called respectively
the Achilles and the Ulysses of Servian history. The float might give
the crucial moment in the decisive battle of Schabaz, with Black George
leading his men against those picturesque standard-bearers of the Turkish
army, the bravest Begs of Bosnia.

V. GERMANY. It is not so easy to find a moment in the German struggle
which is both significant and simple enough for our purpose. Perhaps the
“Wartburg Festival” would answer. Some historians treat this incident
in lighter vein, others seriously. But all agree that the government
reactionaries took it very much to heart and at once began a reign of
tyranny that was largely responsible for the revolutions of ’30 and of
historic ’48. At any rate the Festival would make a most effective float.
This was the way it happened.

A couple of years after the battle of Waterloo secret political societies
were formed all over Germany among the students and the athletes. These
were called the _Burschenschaften_ and the Turners. On October 17,
1818, several hundred of these young fellows met at the Wartburg (the
ancient castle which had sheltered Luther after he had defied the pope
and the emperor). That evening they gathered about a bonfire and fed it
with various symbols of despotism and with the effigies of reactionary
books, while, hard by, the Turners did exuberant gymnastic “stunts.”
This float could be made most realistic with a genuine bonfire and a
couple of Turners in the rear performing, perhaps, on a horizontal bar.
The decorations should be in black, red and yellow, the colors of German
liberty.

VI. GREECE. The float might merely show a group of the picturesquely
costumed leaders of the Revolution of 1821. There would be General
Kolokotrones, Marco Botzaris (the Suliote chieftain immortalized in
Fitz-Greene Halleck’s poem), Admiral Miaoulis, Kanaris of fire-ship fame,
Karaiskakis, the daring guerilla, and Lord Byron, the poet of revolt, who
gave his life for the cause, and without whom there might have been no
Greek independence.

A more dramatic subject would be found in the Greeks’ welcome of Byron
when he arrived at Missolonghi in the fall of 1823. The costumes of this
float would be particularly effective.

VII. HUNGARY. One turns naturally to the events of April 14, 1849, when,
on Kossuth’s motion, the diet proclaimed the independence of Hungary.
This ought to be as practicable as to give the signing of our own
Declaration.

As an alternative scheme, General Görgei could be shown, surrounded by
the evidences of some of his victories, such as Szólnok, Isaszeg, Vácz,
and Nagysarló.

VIII. ITALY. Italian liberty might well be epitomized in the spectacle of
a red-shirted Garibaldi leaning from the balcony of the Foresteria (the
balcony could be made out of two packing boxes and a bit of railing) and
addressing the jubilant Neapolitans on Sept. 7, 1860, at the close of his
conquest of the Two Sicilies.

IX. PERSIA. This unique float would show a handful of the Mujteheds, or
higher Mohammedan priests, taking refuge, or “bast” before the shrine of
Shah Abdul Azim near Teheran, as they did in 1905. The taking of “bast”
in some sanctuary or other place of protection is an old Persian method
of political protest. In this case it inaugurated the recent revolution
which won Persia a constitution.

X. LIBERTY. The final float would be devoted to displaying the charms of
the most statuesquely beautiful young woman in the community,—who would
be dressed and accoutered rather like the Statue of Liberty in New York
harbor, only, one hopes, with somewhat better taste.

In this order the procession would parade the principal streets. Then,
finally it would march to the stadium (or athletic field) for the
dramatic part of the pageant, if this part were found desirable.

But before passing to the masque, a few more suggestions must be offered
about the parade.

The idea already outlined is capable of almost infinite expansion. For
most of the immigrant nations in our country have undergone struggles
that were inspired, directly or indirectly, by 1776.

Suppose a town wishes to celebrate its next Fourth with a Liberty
Pageant;—it has merely to select an Independence Day Committee as
Springfield did. This committee prepares a list of the different local
nationalities, and decides on the most important modern struggle for
liberty in the history of each, and finally, on the characters or events
that will most simply and effectively epitomize that struggle in float
form.

A few picturesque Tyrolese, for instance, could make a thrilling picture
of the gallant rising of Andreas Hofer in 1809. The Croatians have a
spirited picture in the 1849 proclamation of their independence of
Hungary. The Poles would find a spirited subject in the rebellion of
1830, which began with a band of brave students trying to seize the
Grand Duke Constantine at his palace near Warsaw. Cuba could recall
her Declaration of Independence of Oct. 10, 1868, or some event of the
late war. Spain could have a Ferrer float. Norway might remind us of
her recent bloodless separation from Sweden. Russia, of one of the many
dramatic incidents in that long, bitter fight for liberty whose end is
not yet in sight.

Not alone by increasing the number of participating nations is this idea
capable of almost endless development, but also by increasing the number
of floats for each nation. The history of most of the struggles already
alluded to contains dozens of alluring subjects. The number need be
limited only by the resources and the enthusiasm of the community.

Behind the national floats international ones might follow, representing
such world-movements as those for:

  RELIGIOUS LIBERTY
  FREEDOM OF SPEECH
  FREEDOM OF THE PRESS
  ABOLITION OF SLAVERY
  EXTENSION OF THE ELECTIVE FRANCHISE
  POPULARIZATION OF GOVERNMENT
  DESTRUCTION OF SPECIAL PRIVILEGE
  EMANCIPATION OF WOMAN
  ABOLITION OF MOB RULE
  ABOLITION OF CHILD LABOR
  ETC., ETC.

So much, then, for the possibilities of expanding the idea. On the other
hand it is capable of just as extreme contraction and simplification for
use in the smaller, less wealthy communities.

By taking a little more care in costuming the marching escorts an
effective pageant could be arranged with only five or six floats.

Indeed, it is not absolutely essential to have floats at all. Nearly
all of the situations suggested above could be adequately represented
by appropriately costumed groups on foot; and there would even be this
positive advantage, that leaders like Garibaldi and Kolokotrones and
Black George might appear at the head of a more realistically adequate
body of troops than could be assembled upon a float.

According to this plan the various foes of liberty might also appear in
force, and sham battles could be fought in various outskirts of town
earlier in the day (let us hope, with noiseless as well as smokeless
arms!) before the various units unite in procession.

If the parade is combined with the performance of a specially written
masque, the combination would obviate many of the usual objections to
the ordinary “safe and sane” Fourth. The masque would provide a most
desirable dramatic and educative element. And, by charging a small
admission fee, this performance would ordinarily pay the entire expense
of the celebration, including the expense of engaging a competent pageant
master. Now a pay performance without the free parade might, under the
circumstances, be considered an undemocratic way of celebrating what
should be our most democratic holiday. But in combination with a free
parade the admission fee would be unobjectionable, and the masque would,
more than anything else, stimulate that deep, thoughtful patriotism whose
lack to-day is as grave a defect in our barbarous Fourth as its cruelty.

The idea of the masque has as yet been worked out only tentatively. Its
development is the business of a dramatic poet. Roughly speaking it would
proceed somewhat as follows.

When the procession arrives at the stadium the floats would enter in
their historical order, each accompanied however, by only the small,
specially trained nucleus of its marching escort. The floats would circle
the inclosure once or twice, and then divide into two files, forming a
lane of honor through which the Liberty float would move slowly and take
up a position in the center of the inclosure.

Its escort would then sing a chorus which ought to be as eloquent and
beautiful and suggestive an exposition of the nature of abstract liberty
as Swinburne’s “Hertha” is of the soul.

When this is finished the Americans would approach this central figure
of Liberty and recount, with music and dramatic action, perhaps, their
struggle in her honor, ending with America sung with full chorus and
band. Then the Americans would take up their position in the secondary
place of honor opposite.

Hereupon, keeping to their historic order, each nation would advance
and after greeting the American float as the pioneer of liberty, would
approach the goddess and briefly recite their deeds in her behalf, each
particularly emphasizing the unique qualities which it brought to its own
struggle, and which it is ready (by application) to bring to any further
struggles in the same general cause.

These national recitals might be managed in various ways. Dependent upon
the size of the stadium and the available creative talent among the
organizers, they might be spoken or sung, solo or in chorus, in prose
or verse, or both. Of course it is desirable that the masque should be
composed entirely by the best poet and set to music by the most inspired
composer obtainable. But it is quite conceivable that local amateurs
might rise to very satisfactory heights in an emergency.

Even in case of rain it might still be possible for the leading
characters to present this masque upon the stage of the largest local
theater concert hall.

After each nation has separately recounted its prowess, and all are
grouped effectively around the central figure, Liberty reminds them
that though they have done heroic deeds in the past, much remains
to accomplish in the present, even in this land of the free. She
then proceeds to describe what foes still menace our real freedom in
America, such foes as special privilege, mob rule, political corruption,
white slavery, treatment of the feeble-minded as common criminals, a
capitalistic press, and so on.

Then in the final grand chorus the united nations would join together in
proclaiming that, strengthened by their separate struggles overseas, they
here and now unite their efforts to make this land, in deed as in name,
the land of liberty.

Could anything make more swiftly and surely for national solidarity
than in some such way to stimulate each national element in our forming
civilization to bring the best it has to the service of the future
America? And what more patriotic and fitting deed could be accomplished
than to transform the birthday of modern liberty from a day of
meaningless destruction into a day of construction fraught with profound
and beautiful significance?




FOOTNOTES


[1] _In “The Seven Ages of Washington.”_

[2] _In the Introduction to “The True History of the American
Revolution.” For the most modern and unvarnished presentation of the
inner history of the period see also his larger work, “The Struggle for
American Independence.” (Lippincott.)_

[3] _From Chambers’ “Book of Days.”_

[4] _In “Curiosities of Popular Customs.”_

[5] _Let your hearts rise upward!_

[6] _From “The Struggle for American Independence,” by Sydney George
Fisher, J. B. Lippincott & Co., Publishers, 1908._

[7] _From “The Chautauquan,” 1900._

[8] _From “The North American Review,” 1896._

[9] _By permission of the publishers, Houghton, Mifflin Co._

[10] _The Century Co., N. Y., publishers._

[11] _The origin of the words of the patriotic hymn, “America,” has been
somewhat recently celebrated by an anniversary. The air, as is well
known, is that of the national anthem of England, “God Save the King.” As
such it has been in use, in one form or another, since the middle of the
last century._

_In 1832, Dr. S. F. Smith came upon it in a “book of German music,”
and on the spur of the moment, as it appears, wrote for it the hymn
“America.” This was in Andover, Mass., in February, 1832. The hymn was
first sung publicly at a children’s celebration at the Park Street
Church, Boston, on July 4th of that year._

_“If I had anticipated the future of it, doubtless, I should have taken
more pains with it,” wrote Doctor Smith, in 1872. “Such as it is, I am
glad to have contributed this mite to the cause of American freedom.”_

[12] _From “The Youth’s Companion.”_

[13] _Reprinted from “The Independent.”_

[14] _By permission of the publishers, Houghton, Mifflin Co._

[15] _By permission of the publishers, Houghton, Mifflin Co._

[16] _By permission of the publishers, Houghton, Mifflin Co._

[17] _The following is an instance of this: Last Fourth of July, a police
court magistrate, wishing to know how many of the prisoners before him,
charged with shooting in the streets, could possibly plead patriotic
motives, asked each in turn to state his nationality. Of the twenty in
line, only two were American-born._

[18] _I may here say, in passing, that our Police Commissioner,
recognising the humane necessity of properly safeguarding the sick, sent
out officers with orders to prevent disturbances in the vicinity of
hospitals. Thanks to his action, the city’s sick had a day of comparative
peace, and the reports which I received that night were unanimous
in stating that the hospitals had never had such a quiet Fourth. A
letter written by Mother Celso, Mother-Superior of St. Elizabeth’s
Hospital, will show how gratefully General Bingham’s thoughtfulness was
appreciated: “It seems as if we were in Paradise. The patients, the
doctors, and the sisters all appreciate the quietness of the day.”_


THE END
